Terms and Conditions This Site ("the Site") is subject to the following terms and conditions (the "Terms"). By proceeding to view this Site or any part of it, you acknowledge that you have read, understood and accepted these Terms, which shall constitute the entire binding agreement between you and The Berkeley Charitable Foundation ("Berkeley Foundation") who control and operate the Site, in respect of your use of the Site. No other terms shall apply. These Terms may be varied by The Berkeley Foundation from time to time and the revised Terms will be deemed to apply at the relevant time in respect of your registration and/or use of the Site. If you breach any of these Terms, your permission to use the Site automatically terminates and you must immediately destroy any downloaded extracts from the Site. Accuracy of Information on our site This Site comprises marketing material produced by Berkeley Foundation in respect of charities that we support, fundraising stories and events we hold. These terms and conditions relate to such marketing material and how it can be used and downloaded by the user only. The Site does not constitute an offer to enter into any form of negotiation or agreement in respect of any of the site content. The Site and its contents are presented in good faith and the Foundation have made all reasonable endeavours to ensure that material contained within it is accurate but it should not be taken as a substitute for a client's further enquiries into our charities and events. Without prejudice to the generality of these terms, Users of the Site are strictly prohibited from downloading or re-circulating material obtained from the Site for the purposes of promoting charity stories and events other than those put on by the Berkeley Foundation. Nothing in this clause is intended to exclude or limit liability for fraud or for fraudulent misrepresentation or any other liability which may not be legally excluded or limited. Berkeley Foundation believes all information on the Site is up to date at the time it is posted. Berkeley Foundation reserves the right to add, alter or delete material from the Site at any time and may, at any time, revise these Terms without notifying you. You are bound by any such amendments and Berkeley Foundation therefore advise that you periodically visit this page to review the current Terms. Whilst Berkeley Foundation uses reasonable efforts to include accurate information in the Site, it makes no warranties or representations as to the accuracy of any information given and all such warranties (whether implied or otherwise) are excluded to the extent permitted by law. Berkeley Foundation excludes all liability for any errors or omissions in the content of the Site to the fullest extent permitted by law. The particulars contained on the Site are for guidance purposes only. The accuracy of any particulars, description, dimensions, references to condition, necessary permissions for use and occupation and other details contained in the Site is not guaranteed and is for general guidance only and users must not rely on them as statements of fact or representations and must satisfy themselves as to their accuracy. Neither Berkeley Foundation nor any of its employees or representatives has any authority to make or give any representation or warranty or enter into any contract whatever in relation to unsolicited charity donations. Berkeley Foundation advises that you take appropriate steps to verify any information upon which you wish to rely. To find out more about our charities, please contact the Foundation team. Linking to Third Party Websites The Site may be hypertext linked to websites operated by third parties for reference and information purposes only. Berkeley Foundation has not reviewed and cannot be responsible for the privacy policies and practices of other websites even if you access them using links from the Site and recommends that you check the terms and conditions and privacy policy of each website you visit and contact its owner or operator if you have any concerns or questions. Likewise, if you linked to the Site from a third party website, Berkeley Foundation cannot be responsible for the privacy policies and practices of the owners or operators of that third party website and recommend that you check the policy of that third party website and contact its owner or operator if you have any concerns or questions. Berkeley Foundation makes no warranties or representations in respect of any linked third parties' websites. Berkeley Foundation excludes all liability for loss or damage to the fullest extent permitted by law arising in respect of any content on such websites. For the avoidance of doubt, the presence of a link to a third party website will not be deemed to be a recommendation of such websites or any advice or information on them by Berkeley Foundation. Our Liability The Site and the information contained on it is provided on an 'as-is' basis and Berkeley Foundation shall not be liable to you in respect of the Site or the use, accessing, downloading or relying on any information contained or referred to on the Site. Berkeley Foundation excludes all liability to the fullest extent permitted by law whether in contract (including under any indemnity or warranty), in tort (including negligence), under statute or otherwise for (but not limited to) any loss of profit, loss of revenue, loss of anticipated savings, loss or corruption of data due to viruses or otherwise, loss of contract or opportunity, loss of goodwill or indirect or consequential loss of whatever nature including (without limit) any loss of a type described above which could be regarded as indirect or consequential and whether or not reasonably foreseeable by you, a third party or Berkeley Foundation in connection with the Site. Whilst Berkeley Foundation makes reasonable attempts to exclude viruses and other harmful components from the Site, its content or server, it cannot guarantee such exclusion and makes no warranty to that it makes such exclusion, to the extent permitted by law excludes all liability for viruses which may be downloaded from the Site. Berkeley Foundation recommends that you take all appropriate safeguards prior to downloading information from the Site. Berkeley Foundation excludes all implied warranties to the fullest extent permitted by English law. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in the Terms will exclude or limit the liability of Berkeley Foundation in respect of death or personal injury due to the negligence of fraud of Berkeley Foundation. Intellectual Property and Copyright You acknowledge and accept that all of the copyright, database rights and any other intellectual property rights which subsist in the design, layout, processes, functions, data and content of the Site are the property of Berkeley Foundation, its information providers or licensors. The Site is owned and operated by Berkeley Foundation. No part of the Site, its content or any of its underlying software and databases may be copied or reproduced, shared with third parties, reverse engineered, reverse assembled, or used to create any derivative work (whether in physical or electronic form) without the prior written consent of Berkeley Foundation. Use You are permitted to download extracts from this website on the basis that no material may be copied, modified, added to or distributed in any way. You may download one copy of the material on any single computer for your private use only, provided that you keep intact all copyright and other proprietary notices. You are not permitted to publish the contents of the Site including but not limited to publication on any other website or computer environment. If you are dissatisfied with the web-site or any content or material on it, your sole exclusive remedy is to discontinue use of the web-site. International Use The Site complies with English law. If you are not based in the UK, then you are not authorized to use the Site and Berkeley Foundation will not be responsible for any loss or liability arising as a result of any such unauthorised access. Changes to the Site The format and content of the Site may be changed at any time without notice. Its operation may be suspended or discontinued for support or maintenance work, in order to update its content or for any other reason. Access may be terminated either in relation to specific users or generally at any time and without notice. Privacy Statement Personal details provided through this web-site will be used in accordance with our Privacy Policy . Information Provided To Use If any user of the Site, or any other person, that views a Berkeley Foundation published document responds with any information or feedback such as questions, comments, suggestions, or the like, such information will be deemed to be non-confidential and Berkeley is at liberty to use, reproduce, disclose and distribute that information to any other person. Further, Berkeley Foundation is at liberty to use or exploit any ideas, concepts, know-how or techniques contained in such information for any purpose whatsoever without charge including, but not limited to, developing, manufacturing and marketing products incorporating such information. The Berkeley Charitable Foundation Registered Office: Berkeley House 19 Portsmouth Road Cobham Surrey KT11 1JG Registered in England and Wales Number 8548400