Our Strategy " Our vision is that young people and their communities will have the tools and resources they need to thrive and be a force for change in the world. " Our mission is to use all our resources to support organisations, young people and communities to have a positive impact in the areas where the Berkeley Group works. We recognise that the best solutions often come from within communities, and want to work with charities that are closely connected to the people they serve. Through our 2030 strategy, we want to have a lasting impact for the young people and communities we serve. That means investing for the long term, while also leaving space for risk, innovation, and new ideas. It means funding flexibly, without losing sight of the need to learn as we go. It means listening to what is needed as the world changes around us, and coming together to find solutions that work. Our Impact Goals A Safe Place to Call Home Everyone has somewhere to live that is safe, secure and sustainable. Journey to Employment Every young person is prepared for work and has the opportunity to build a sustainable career. Health and Wellbeing Everyone has the support they need to live happier, healthier lives. Youth Leadership Young people are empowered to positively impact their own lives and the communities in which they live. A Resilient Voluntary Sector Our communities include a voluntary sector that is effective, inclusive and well-resourced. Our Commitments Partnership We'll work in partnership with expert charities, investing in their work to help young people thrive Adding value We'll add value to our partnerships through our expertise, networks and relationship with the Berkeley Group Learning and Sharing We'll learn from our work and share our learning across the public, private and voluntary sectors Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We'll ensure that diversity, equality and inclusion are at the heart of everything we do Youth Participation We'll enable young people to play an active role in the Foundation's work We have worked closely with our board of trustees, charity partners, and key stakeholders across the Berkeley Group to shape our strategy for the next ten years. The result is a revised vision and mission, and a long-term strategy which sees us evolve our previous goals, making them more relevant to a changing external environment, and bringing more young people into each stage of the grant-making process. Berkeley Foundation 2030 Strategic Plan