About Us The Berkeley Foundation is the independent charitable foundation set up by the Berkeley Group in 2011. We use all our resources to support organisations, young people and communities to have a positive impact in the areas where the Berkeley Group works. Our work is supported by colleagues across Berkeley Group, who donate, fundraise and volunteer their time in our local communities. Learn more about our strategy here. Our People We are run by a small team of staff and a board of trustees. They receive fantastic support from a group of volunteer Foundation Champions who work for the Berkeley Group. Meet the Team Testimonials " The Berkeley Foundation is absolutely committed to supporting young people and communities to thrive. We are focused on investing in our local communities through long-term partnerships with brilliant front-line charities. " Piers Clanford, Chairman of Berkeley Foundation How We're Funded The Berkeley Foundation receives funding from two main sources. Berkeley Group provides 'core funding', pays all of our overheads and covers the cost of specific fundraising events. Berkeley staff do a fantastic job of raising money through fundraising events and our payroll giving scheme. The Foundation has a match funding scheme to match staff fundraising, volunteering and Give As You Earn for our charity partners. Finally, we occasionally receive external donations. Transparency is important to us. You can find our audited accounts here . Our Funding Model Our Publications You can find our latest publications below, including our Strategic Plan and 2024 Annual Review . Berkeley Foundation Annual Review 2024 Equity, Diversity & Inclusion 2023 Berkeley Foundation Annual Review 2023 Berkeley Foundation Annual Review 2022 Berkeley Foundation 2030 Strategic Plan 10 Year Review Berkeley Foundation Annual Review 2020 Berkeley Foundation Annual Review 2019 Berkeley Foundation Strategic Plan 2018-2021 Berkeley Foundation Annual Review 2018 Berkeley Foundation Annual Review 2017 Berkeley Foundation Strategy 2017 Berkeley Foundation Annual Review 2016 Berkeley Foundation Annual Review 2015 Berkeley Foundation Annual Review 2014