Our team Our team is here to help, so if you would like get in touch about any of our funding programmes or to find out more about supporting our work, please use the email addresses shown below. For general enquiries, please click here or phone us on 0207 164 6199 . Aileen Edmunds You can contact Aileen on Aileen@longleigh.org With a working-class background, family in social housing, and as the first generation to go to university, I have seen first-hand how inequality and poverty is as much about opportunity as it is about wealth. I have since dedicated my career to using any privilege or opportunity I have had, to try to level the playing field; both through volunteering – utilising my skills as a Trustee and NED – and professionally across causes from international development to homelessness and social housing. I am honoured to lead such an ambitious and values-led organisation into its next chapter. With over 15 years of experience in grant making, fundraising, charity leadership and service design and delivery, including creating a multi-million Foundation for a Housing Association. I am committed to leveraging my experience and passion to build the impact and scale of Longleigh Foundation’s reach – ensuring we create opportunities for even more people to escape poverty and lack of opportunity – for good. Alex Banwell You can contact Alex on Alex@longleigh.org I have over fifteen years’ experience working in audit and finance with most of that spent working in the charitable and social housing sectors. Before Longleigh, I worked for eight years for a Housing Association in Scotland. I am delighted to have joined this small and dedicated team focused on improving the lives of those in need. I look forward to providing support to both the team at Longleigh and those we as an organisation help. Sara Woodward You can contact Sara on Sara@longleigh.org I have worked within the charitable sector for the last four years, having over thirty years’ experience within various finance settings, from industry to accountancy and also in business software development. I find working in the third sector incredibly rewarding and feel blessed to work at Longleigh. I have a supporting role within this small and committed team, which thrives on the help that they are able to give to others. I am passionate about equality and really value being a part of such a great organisation that strives to make a difference to the lives of people who just need a little support. Charlene Grant You can contact Charlene on charlene@longleigh.org I join Longleigh with over two decades of working with not-for-profit organisations, bringing a wealth of experience that focuses on improving communities. Working in the social housing sector for 17 years, I progressed from front-line roles to establishing and managing the communications and marketing function. With 13 years of experience in marketing communications and brand management, my role at Longleigh speaks directly to my passion and commitment to improving the lives of social housing communities. I feel privileged for the opportunity to raise the profile, and reputation of Longleigh Foundation. Charlotte Dicks You can contact Charlotte on charlotte@longleigh.org I have over 10 years’ experience in the Charity sector, in both frontline and management roles, working in a variety of specialities including substance misuse, mental health support and child protection. Before coming to Longleigh, I was working in a grants’ management role supporting Veterans and their families. I’m passionate about developing and running grants programmes that are tailored for the individual and that support a wide range of circumstances and situations people face in their day to day lives. I’m proud to work for Longleigh – we’re a funder that really ‘puts people first’ and we’re using our funding to enrich the lives of individuals and communities within the social housing sector. Manjeev Muker You can contact Manjeev on manjeev@longleigh.org I have spent the last eight years working at both national and local carers charities as a fundraiser and support worker. Before this, I completed a degree in Geography and the Environment and an MA in South East Asian Studies, while working in music and local government. The move to Longleigh is a huge joy. It is an absolute privilege to be a direct help for those that need it through the transforming nature of the grants the Foundation provides. Ingrid Green You can contact Ingrid on ingrid@longleigh.org I’m originally from South Africa and have now been in the UK for five years. I’ve held a range of administrative roles, including within the banking, legal and commercial sectors. I thoroughly enjoy my role at Longleigh as I have always enjoyed working with people and my dream was to be able to help wherever I could. Working at Longleigh gives me great satisfaction when I can see how lives are being transformed through the Individual Grants we provide to individuals and their families. Tessa Harrington You can contact Tessa on tessa@longleigh.org I love my role at Longleigh as I am able to draw on my experience from working in front facing roles in higher education, apprenticeships and from being self-employed. I feel that the work we do brings real value to the customers and communities we come into contact with every day and I value giving people the support they need to transform their lives. Grants available from Longleigh Individual Grants Circles of Support Home Our Grants Toggle Sub Menu Individual Grants Circles of Support Grantee Voices Individual Grants Circles of Support Grantee Voices Research Grants About Us Toggle Sub Menu About Us Our Team Our Trustees Our Annual Reviews Our Data and 360Giving About Us Our Team Our Trustees Our Annual Reviews Our Data and 360Giving News and Stories Contact Us Menu Go to top