Our Annual Reviews Our annual review pages are a chance to share and celebrate stories about our work. We show how Longleigh is enabling transformation to happen in the lives of individuals and communities served by the social housing sector. Expect from thoughts on Longleigh’s future from our CEO, top line figures showing our impact and the all important experiences and stories of the people we help. Annual Review 2023-2024 We are pleased to share our Annual Review for 2023-2024. This past year has brought its fair share of challenges, with rising costs and increasing demand for support services. Despite this, our dedicated and highly skilled team has continued to deliver effective programmes for social housing residents. Read more Annual Review 2022-2023 Check out our Annual Review for 2022-2023 to read about our response to the cost-of-living crisis and find out about how our new Chair and CEO plan to deepen and grow our impact in the years to come. Read more Annual Review 2022 We are pleased to present our Annual Review 2022. This was a year in which the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic was ever present and made even more challenging for many households due to the cost-of-living crisis that quickly followed and remains with us to this day. Read more Annual Review 2021 We are delighted to share our Annual Review for 2021, newly designed for the digital world. 2021 was another year in which life changed for millions of people, but also a year where so many rose to the challenge to support those most vulnerable. Find out more and enjoy this new digital review. Read more Grants available from Longleigh Individual Grants Circles of Support Home Our Grants Toggle Sub Menu Individual Grants Circles of Support Grantee Voices Individual Grants Circles of Support Grantee Voices Research Grants About Us Toggle Sub Menu About Us Our Team Our Trustees Our Annual Reviews Our Data and 360Giving About Us Our Team Our Trustees Our Annual Reviews Our Data and 360Giving News and Stories Contact Us Menu Go to top