Latest News and Stories Welcome to the Longleigh news page where we share updates, our work, grantee stories and our views. Would you like to share your story? If you have received a grant or service from us, sharing your story can help us raise more funds and help even more families. Contact our Head of Communications, PR and Brand to find out more. BBC Breakfast highlights lack of flooring in social housing 9th October 2025 Longleigh Foundation appeared on BBC Breakfast to discuss the lack of flooring in social housing and why it matters. The programme brought a lived-in perspective to a problem that often goes unnoticed. Research into flooring in social housing Our research last year, produced with Altair, shows that hundreds of thousands of adults in social homes […] Longleigh’s impact January – August 2025 25th September 2025 From January to August 2025, Longleigh Foundation has supported 477 people with over £422,000 in grants. Access to our Individual Grants means Stonewater customers manage challenging situations and make practical changes in their lives. The difference these grants make is best explained by those we’ve supported: “These grants really helped me out as I fled […] Tackling the rural housing challenge in England 19th September 2025 Across rural England, finding an affordable home is becoming harder than ever. Too many families, young people and older residents are being priced out of the places they call home. As a result, villages and small towns are struggling to retain the services and people that keep them thriving. That’s why, in July 2025, Longleigh […] Dayne’s story: a youth mentoring journey 5th August 2025 Empowering the next generation: re-introducing Dayne. At a difficult point in life, he made a bold decision. He decided not just to rebuild, but to create something that could support others too. With an Education, Training and Employment (ETE) grant from Longleigh, Dayne launched Evolving Mentoring. This youth mentoring service helps young people access alternative […] Longleigh’s Impact: Stuart’s Experience 29th July 2025 Stuart found himself in financial hardship and was living in a halfway house before he moved into his new home. Although it was a roof over his head, he found it uncomfortable and couldn’t have his children visit. So, when his new home came up, although further away than he wanted, he was happy to […] New Individual Grants Criteria Now Live 22nd July 2025 More Flexibility, Choice and Clarity We’ve launched our updated criteria for Individual Grants that is shaped by what our customers told us they need. What’s changed and why? Our refreshed criteria are clearer, more flexible, and offer more dignity and choice. This comes directly from what we heard during our consultation with 73 grant applicants […] May Snapshot: Our Busiest Month Yet 17th July 2025 Transparent by Numbers: May Edition Every month, we share a snapshot of how our grants are helping social housing residents. In May, we supported more people than any other month this year! This shows the dedication of our referral partners and the strength of our collective partnership Here’s how we did in May: Each number […] Unlocking affordable rural housing in England: A roadmap for change 8th July 2025 A major new research report tackling England’s rural housing crisis was launched on Monday 7 July at Stonewater’s new homes development in Loxwood, Sussex. The report marks a pivotal moment for rural communities facing deepening housing pressures due to a chronic shortage of affordable homes. Commissioned by Longleigh Foundation in partnership with Stonewater, the Fusion21 […] New Financial Wellbeing Support for Stonewater Customers 1st July 2025 We’re proud to announce that we are continuing our partnership with Clean Slate. Today, we launch a refreshed and more comprehensive Financial Wellbeing Service for Stonewater customers. Thanks to ongoing funding from Longleigh through our Circles of Support programme, Clean Slate will build on their proven approach, bringing: Bringing it all together in one joined-up […] April at a Glance: Reaching More People, Together 10th June 2025 Transparent by Numbers: April Edition Each month, we share how our grant-making is progressing so you can see the difference we’re making together. April was our biggest month yet, and that’s down to strong partnership working, especially with Stonewater colleagues. Thanks to great customer referrals and shared commitment, more people are getting the help they […] A National Tenant Voice: What Comes Next 5th June 2025 The call for a National Tenant Voice is getting louder. In 2023, Longleigh Foundation, in partnership with the G15, commissioned research to explore whether there is a need and appetite for a national tenant voice in social housing, and if so, what form it should take. The result is Tenants at the Table, a report […] How Partnership Is Making a Difference for Stonewater Customers 14th May 2025 Supporting Emotional Wellbeing For this year’s Mental Health Awareness Week, we’re proud to spotlight the difference our partnership with Kaleidoscope Plus Group is making in the lives of Stonewater customers. Together, we’ve supported people through a wide range of emotional wellbeing needs, including anxiety, hoarding and neurodiversity. We’ve delivered this with care, consistency and compassion. […] “Finding Breathing Space During a Crisis” Sarah’s Story 8th May 2025 Sarah* and her partner found themselves in financial difficulty after she had to leave her well-paid job, and her partner was unfortunately diagnosed with cancer. Although they were receiving Universal Credit at the time, they found that once the household bills had been paid, they had nothing left. Along with the regular payments of rent, […] March Grant Stats Show Longleigh’s Continued Growth 30th April 2025 Each month, we track our grant performance to make sure our funding is reaching the people who need it most. Our grant performance tracking also ensures we are delivering funding quickly, fairly, and effectively. March was a standout month in more ways than one, and we’re proud to share the data with you. Headline Stats […] Tenants at The Table Report Published 11th April 2025 A National Voice for Social Housing Tenants Longleigh Foundation is proud to announce the launch of Tenants at the Table – a landmark report that puts the voices of social housing tenants at the centre of the conversation. It offers clear, practical steps towards creating a credible National Tenant Advocacy Structure. Tenants voices need to […] Call for organisations to apply to deliver Financial Wellbeing Support for social housing residents 8th April 2025 Longleigh launches a call for expert financial wellbeing charities and organisations to apply for funding to to help social housing residents build financial resilience. At Longleigh, we believe everyone in social housing should have the opportunity to thrive – not just survive. We support this vision through direct grants, strategic partnerships with community organisations, and […] How Ruthlyn Turned Longleigh’s Helping Hand Into Lasting Change 1st April 2025 Ruthlyn* contacted Longleigh Foundation for support after moving into her new home in 2022. She was part of a close-knit community where neighbours supported each other by attending coffee mornings and bingo sessions. But the cost-of-living crisis, soaring fuel prices, and rising service charges soon took a toll on their daily lives. Discovering Longleigh Ruthlyn […] “Best Job I’ve Ever Had” Tessa’s Experience Inside Longleigh’s Individual Grants 27th March 2025 Longleigh Foundation are here to to provide meaningful support to Stonewater customers experiencing financial hardship. But behind every grant we give, there’s a dedicated person making it all happen. Meet Tessa, our Individual Grants Officer, someone who knows firsthand how important and transformative this work is. In a recent Housing Today feature, Tessa shares her journey and the […] Grantees Share Their Experiences with Longleigh 12th March 2025 We asked our grantees what they thought of us, and the results are in! Hearing directly from the individuals we support helps us improve and ensure we are offering the best possible service and experience. We put our feedback forms through a word cloud generator, and the responses were overwhelmingly positive. We were honoured to […] Partner Selected For Rural Housing Research Project 6th March 2025 Longleigh has selected the University of Liverpool as its project partner for research into the rural housing crisis. The study, which was made possible thanks to funding from leading housing provider Stonewater, and the Fusion21 Foundation, will examine how affordable housing can help alleviate housing shortages faced by rural communities in the UK. The research […] Providing Essentials for Stonewater Customers 11th February 2025 We’re pleased to partner with Charis to help Stonewater customers stay warm and connected this winter with essential items. Charis provide essential household items through the Charis shop and we’re excited to offer specially selected bundles designed to provide extra comfort and support. What’s Available? Warm Home Bundle Personal Warmth Bundle Wi-Fi Dongles Preloaded with 60GB […] Time to Talk Day 2025: Why Conversations Matter 6th February 2025 6 February 2025 marks Time to Talk Day, the UK’s biggest mental health conversation, led by Mind and Rethink Mental Illness in partnership with Co-op. The aim? To encourage open discussions about mental health, reduce stigma, and create supportive communities where people feel heard. At Longleigh Foundation, we proudly support Stonewater customer’s mental wellbeing through our Circles […] Keep Warm And Stay Supported With Winter Energy Saving Tips 29th January 2025 It’s hard to believe it’s almost February already, and with it comes colder days and higher energy bills. We know keeping your home warm can be a worry, but small changes can help cut costs without sacrificing comfort. Below, we’ve shared some simple energy saving tips to help you stay warm while keeping costs down. […] Numbers To Impact With 360Giving 16th January 2025 From numbers to impact, transparency drives how Longleigh delivers grants that support social housing residents across the UK. As part of our commitment to openness, we proudly announce the launch of our 360Giving data page. Through the 360Giving platform, we share insights into how and where our funding is driving positive change and making a difference […] Tackling welfare gaps with Tic Tech Match 9th January 2025 Longleigh has featured in the recent Social Policy blog, which highlights how housing associations and charities like Longleigh are addressing the gaps left by the welfare state. The article, Housing and Papering Over the Cracks in the Welfare State, takes a close look at the challenges faced by individuals and families reliant on social housing, particularly when welfare […] Season’s Greetings From The Longleigh Foundation 19th December 2024 Season’s Greetings to you all. With Christmas fast approaching, we have taken the time to reflect on a busy, but rewarding year at Longleigh Foundation! Some of our 2024 highlights include: ✨ Achieving an incredible 93% satisfaction rating with Stonewater customers for our individual grant programme ✍ Launching our final research on floor coverings in […] Research Partner Needed: Social Housing in Rural Communities 9th December 2024 The Longleigh Foundation is embarking on an important research initiative to explore the critical role social housing can play in addressing the need for affordable homes in rural areas. We are excited to announce that our search for a research partner is now live! The Need for Rural Affordable Housing Affordable housing in rural communities […] Longleigh’s Annual Report & Financial Statements 2024 27th November 2024 We are proud to share the publication of Longleigh Foundation’s Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ending 30th June 2024. This past year has brought its fair share of challenges, with rising costs and increasing demand for support services. Despite this, our dedicated and highly skilled team has continued to deliver effective programmes […] Longleigh’s Impact: Supporting Lyndsay 26th November 2024 At Longleigh Foundation, we’re driven by our mission to support people through challenging times, and hearing the difference we make is what keeps us going. Recently, Lyndsay, one of our Hardship Grant recipients, shared her gratitude with the service she received from our Individual Grants Officer, Ingrid. Lyndsay Shares “Going to be GUTTED when I’m done with […] Dayne’s Journey To Youth Empowerment With Longleigh 1st October 2024 Hi, I’m Dayne and it’s lovely to e-meet you My name is Dayne Donegan, and I’ve spent the last fifteen years working with young people in various settings, from mainstream and residential schools to alternative provisions. My passion is helping young minds find their path, overcome challenges, and live the best life they can. When […] Longleigh Wins ‘Commercial Collaboration of the Year’ Award 17th September 2024 We are incredibly honoured to announce that Longleigh has won the ‘Commercial Collaboration of the Year’ award at the Association of Charitable Organisations (ACO) 2024 Annual Awards. Achieving this award recognises our partnership with Altair on pioneering research into the impact of inadequate floor coverings in social housing. The research The research, developed in collaboration […] Stonewater Customers Give Longleigh A 93% Satisfaction Rating 29th August 2024 At Longleigh, customer satisfaction and excellent service delivery is at the core of everything we do and how we do it. In June this year, we conducted a customer satisfaction survey as part of our Individual Grants Review, reaching out to 646 Stonewater customers who had received a Longleigh Grant. With 73 responses (an 11.3% […] Longleigh Foundation Shortlisted For ACO 2024 Annual Awards 22nd August 2024 We are pleased to announce that Longleigh Foundation has been shortlisted for ACO’s ‘Commercial Collaboration of the Year’. This nomination reflects the collaborative work we’ve accomplished with Altair, a consultancy specialising in the social housing sector. In May 2024, our extensive research into floor covering provisions at point of let in social housing concluded in […] Longleigh’s Impact: Susan’s Story 10th July 2024 Susan*, a mother of two, found herself facing mounting debt amidst the ongoing cost of living crisis. Supporting both sons alone, including her 8-year-old son, who has ADHD and SEMH and requires extra care and attention, Susan struggled to manage. Coupled with the lack of a functional fridge freezer, cooker, and a car seat for […] Aileen Edmunds’ Call To Move From Stigma To Solutions 4th July 2024 It was a busy week for the UK housing sector at the Housing 2024 event in Manchester last week. Our CEO, Aileen Edmunds, took to the fringe stage, delivering a powerful message that urged Housing Associations to stay true to their primary purpose—providing homes that serve as a foundation for a flourishing life. Aileen emphasised, “If […] National Voice for Tenants 4th July 2024 Along with The G15, Longleigh has co-commissioned a feasibility study on establishing whether there should be a National Voice for Tenants. We have chosen The Health Creation Alliance (THCA) to complete this research, which will consult tenants to: – Identify ways they can have greater influence on national policymaking – Explore how this initiative could […] Longleigh’s Impact: Supporting Sharon’s Journey To Stability 19th June 2024 Meet Sharon*, a 52-year-old woman referred to Longleigh by our Circles of Support partner, Cleanslate. Sharon was experiencing significant challenges due to anxiety and depression, which were worsened by financial strain. With two daughters depending on her, including one who was pregnant, Sharon found herself struggling to afford some of life’s basic necessities like food […] Leading For Impact: Aileen Edmunds First Nine Months As CEO At Longleigh 18th June 2024 Nine months into her role as Longleigh’s new CEO, as we conclude our 2023/24 Financial year, we sit down with Aileen Edmunds to see how she’s found her first few months. Tell us about your work before you joined Longleigh Foundation? “I always knew I wanted to use my time and skills to try and […] Raising awareness for better floor coverings in Social Housing 29th May 2024 We are raising awareness about our Final Report on the provision of floor coverings in social housing earlier this month, have you read it yet? Our research revealed that an estimated 760,000 adults in social housing live without proper floor coverings, affecting as many as 15% of households. This lack of floor coverings significantly impacts […] Final report on the provision of floor coverings 8th May 2024 Would you be comfortable living in a home with bare floorboards? Today, we publish our Final Report on the provision of floor coverings at the point of let in social housing. At Longleigh, we are more than just a provider of traditional grants, we’re advocates for change. In response to our experience as a grant-maker, […] Longleigh Publishes Second Learning Report on Flooring 16th October 2023 Longleigh Foundation has recently published the second of our Learning Reports about the provision of floor coverings in social housing. This second report highlights the very real experiences of tenants. The research is being carried out by Altair on our behalf and is part of a three-year project commissioned and funded by Longleigh. If […] Manjeev Muker, Longleigh’s Individual Grants Manager, Speaks at ACO Conference 3rd October 2023 Manjeev Muker, Longleigh’s Individual Grants Manager, was invited to speak at the Association of Charitable Foundations (ACO) annual conference, which took place on 27th September. Manjeev, along with Anne-Marie Bancroft, Principal Consultant at Altair, introduced Altair’s research findings around the lack of flooring provision in social housing, which Longleigh has commissioned and funded. As part […] Longleigh Foundation Appoints New CEO 18th September 2023 We are delighted to introduce Aileen Edmunds as our new Chief Executive. Aileen joins Longleigh from Trafford Housing Trust (now acquired by L&Q) where she set up a multi-million pound Foundation. She has more than 15 years’ experience in the charity sector specialising in service design, fundraising and leadership in causes from homelessness to international […] Sharing Stories Of Our Progress And Performance – Our Annual Review And Statutory Accounts 2022 11th April 2023 We are pleased to present our Annual Review 2022. This was a year in which the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic was ever present and made even more challenging for many households due to the cost-of-living crisis that quickly followed and remains with us to this day. Circles Of Support Partner, Clean Slate, Wins Major Accolade 15th December 2022 We are delighted that Clean Slate, one of our Circle of Support partners, has won the Positive Impact in Finance Award at the inaugural New Statesman Positive Impact Awards, which were held in London on 6th December. Longleigh Foundation Announces New Board Trustees 13th December 2022 Longleigh Foundation, the independent charitable foundation for the social housing sector, founded by Stonewater, has announced two new appointments to its Board of Trustees. Reinventing Homes – Longleigh’s Involvement In The ITN Programme 26th July 2022 The Chartered Institute of Housing (CIH), in partnership with ITN Business, have produced a news-style programme, called Reinventing Homes and, here at Longleigh, we’re delighted to be one of the organisations featured in this programme. Royal Visit 1st June 2022 Our CEO, Andy Peers, attended the opening of Noden's Mews in Leominster by HRH the Duke of Kent. Longleigh Foundation was a funding partner in this scheme that supported veterans to build homes, which they then moved into... An End Of Year Message From Our CEO, Andy Peers 23rd December 2021 As 2021 comes to an end, we are pleased to share an end of year message from our CEO, Andy Peers. He reflects on the past year, what we’ve achieved and what we’re looking forward to in 2022. Our Annual Report And Financial Statements For 2021 20th December 2021 Find out about Longleigh’s grants and finances, along with our successes and challenges, from the March 2020 to June 2021 in this extended Annual Report. Queen’s Birthday Honours Recognition For The Driving Force Behind Longleigh’s Creation 21st June 2021 We’re absolutely delighted to hear the news that George Blunden has been recognised in the Queen’s Birthday Honours for his work in the housing sector and in setting up Longleigh in 2015. Funding That Can Transform Society 18th May 2021 Learn about our latest research grant for INVITE, the University of Stirling's project in promoting inclusive living technology. Sharing & Celebrating Stories Of Progress & Lives Being Transformed 6th January 2021 We are pleased to present our Annual Review for 2020, a year in which life unexpectedly changed for millions of people. But, a year in which we witnessed the silver-lining of incredible generosity, kindness, resilience and innovation across communities. Longleigh Lockdown Stories: Bringing It All Back Home 14th December 2020 Our next Longleigh Lockdown story from Leeds Music Trust shares the power of music in improving wellbeing in their 'Bringing It All Back Home' project. Longleigh Lockdown Stories: Justlife 6th November 2020 Our series of Longleigh Lockdown Stories continues as we head into a second, national lockdown. We hear from Simon, Chief Executive at JustLife, a homelessness charity. Longleigh Lockdown Stories: Imagineer Lockdown Stories 22nd October 2020 We’re back with another Longleigh Lockdown Story and this time it’s over to Liz, Founder & Managing Director at Imagineer. Longleigh Lockdown Stories: Covid 19 And Impact North’s Story 17th September 2020 The next in our series of Longleigh Lockdown Stories comes from Claire Hopkins, the founder and director at Impact North. Our Story Of Learning During The Lockdown 26th August 2020 Lippy People is a video storytelling charity based in Leeds that contributes to positive social impacts through coaching people. They learnt much during lockdown and they wanted to share these learnings with you. Longleigh lockdown stories: the Alcohol Education Trust 10th August 2020 In this Longleigh Lockdown Story, it’s the turn of the Alcohol Education Trust (AET) to tell us more. Longleigh ‘Lockdown Stories’ 29th July 2020 During lockdown we’ve been holding regular ‘cuppa & chat’ video meetings with community-based projects that we’ve funded. The meetings aim to give project leaders a safe space to talk and connect – we wanted to share their stories. Spend Or Save: The Perennial Dilemma Of The Charitable Foundation… 14th July 2020 Longleigh has been fortunate to receive some excellent advice and guidance from James and Guy at Yoke & Co. as we navigated the world of charity finance and investment. We wanted to share Playing Our Part: Supporting Communities Through The Coronavirus Pandemic 15th April 2020 A note from our Chief Executive, Andy Peers. It was back to work for the Longleigh team after a bank holiday weekend that’s been unlike any I’ve experienced in my lifetime, and perhaps like nothing I’ll – or we’ll – experience again. Charities Encouraged To Apply For Longleigh Funding To Help Tackle Hate Crime In The Black Country 1st April 2020 A new fund has been launched in response to the growing numbers of people affected by hate crime across the Black Country. What We’re Learning From Our Individual Grants Programme 1st April 2020 Over the last two-years we have seen that any projections we made about the expected demand for the Individual Grants we provide to residents within the properties and schemes of our originating donor have been exceeded. More Than A Numbers Game 1st April 2020 There are some scary statistics out there about the level of funding applications that are unsuccessful. Grants available from Longleigh Individual Grants Circles of Support Home Our Grants Toggle Sub Menu Individual Grants Circles of Support Grantee Voices Individual Grants Circles of Support Grantee Voices Research Grants About Us Toggle Sub Menu About Us Our Team Our Trustees Our Annual Reviews Our Data and 360Giving About Us Our Team Our Trustees Our Annual Reviews Our Data and 360Giving News and Stories Contact Us Menu Go to top