Longleigh Foundation Privacy Statement Update March 2025 Introduction The Longleigh Foundation is committed to ensuring that your privacy is protected. This Privacy Policy outlines how we collect, use, and protect any information you provide when using this website. We comply with the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018. If we request information that could identify you, it will only be used in accordance with this policy. This policy is reviewed regularly and was last updated on 1 st March 2025. You can contact us at by emailing us at: dataprotection@longleigh.org Privacy Statement WHAT WE COLLECT 1.1. We may collect the following information from you through the use of this website: 1.1.1.1. Name 1.1.1.2. Contact information including email address and telephone number 1.1.1.3. Information from your social housing provider or a charitable organisation funded by Longleigh to provide support services. 1.2. If you are applying for any form of grant – on behalf of someone else or on behalf of your organisation, you will be asked to provide information which we believe is necessary for us to verify and assess the application: 1.2.1.1. For Project and Research Grants, this will include contact information of the applicant the organisation they represent, together with detailed information about the project/work that funding is being sought for. 1.2.1.2. For Individual Grants, this will require the supporting staff member who is completing the application to provide information relating to: Confirmation that they have the resident’s consent to submit an application on their behalf and provide us with the required personal information; Whether or not the resident is a resident of eligible social housing providers. The web-form automatically prevents continuing with the application if the resident is not a resident of an eligible social housing provider; Contact information for the supporting staff member and the resident; Household information for the resident, for example, the number of people living in the house and number of dependent children and their ages; Reasons for needing the grant and what the grant will be spent on; and If required, supporting qualifying evidence depending on the specific type of grant the application is for. For example, this might be information related to the resident’s physical or mental health; or evidence to confirm employment, self-employment or a place on a further or higher-education course. 1.3. We will also collect information relating to gender, age bracket, ethnic origin, marital status, sexual orientation and religious beliefs. The provision of this information helps us to ensure that we are reaching a wide range of people with the funding we offer. This information is voluntary and you are not required to provide it. However, if you do provide this information, it is used in statistical form only and will not be used to make individual decisions about you or your application. 1.1. We may collect the following information from you through the use of this website: 1.1.1.1. Name 1.1.1.2. Contact information including email address and telephone number 1.1.1.3. Information from your social housing provider or a charitable organisation funded by Longleigh to provide support services. 1.1.1.1. Name 1.1.1.2. Contact information including email address and telephone number 1.1.1.3. Information from your social housing provider or a charitable organisation funded by Longleigh to provide support services. 1.2. If you are applying for any form of grant – on behalf of someone else or on behalf of your organisation, you will be asked to provide information which we believe is necessary for us to verify and assess the application: 1.2.1.1. For Project and Research Grants, this will include contact information of the applicant the organisation they represent, together with detailed information about the project/work that funding is being sought for. 1.2.1.2. For Individual Grants, this will require the supporting staff member who is completing the application to provide information relating to: Confirmation that they have the resident’s consent to submit an application on their behalf and provide us with the required personal information; Whether or not the resident is a resident of eligible social housing providers. The web-form automatically prevents continuing with the application if the resident is not a resident of an eligible social housing provider; Contact information for the supporting staff member and the resident; Household information for the resident, for example, the number of people living in the house and number of dependent children and their ages; Reasons for needing the grant and what the grant will be spent on; and If required, supporting qualifying evidence depending on the specific type of grant the application is for. For example, this might be information related to the resident’s physical or mental health; or evidence to confirm employment, self-employment or a place on a further or higher-education course. 1.2.1.1. For Project and Research Grants, this will include contact information of the applicant the organisation they represent, together with detailed information about the project/work that funding is being sought for. 1.2.1.2. For Individual Grants, this will require the supporting staff member who is completing the application to provide information relating to: Confirmation that they have the resident’s consent to submit an application on their behalf and provide us with the required personal information; Whether or not the resident is a resident of eligible social housing providers. The web-form automatically prevents continuing with the application if the resident is not a resident of an eligible social housing provider; Contact information for the supporting staff member and the resident; Household information for the resident, for example, the number of people living in the house and number of dependent children and their ages; Reasons for needing the grant and what the grant will be spent on; and If required, supporting qualifying evidence depending on the specific type of grant the application is for. For example, this might be information related to the resident’s physical or mental health; or evidence to confirm employment, self-employment or a place on a further or higher-education course. Confirmation that they have the resident’s consent to submit an application on their behalf and provide us with the required personal information; Whether or not the resident is a resident of eligible social housing providers. The web-form automatically prevents continuing with the application if the resident is not a resident of an eligible social housing provider; Contact information for the supporting staff member and the resident; Household information for the resident, for example, the number of people living in the house and number of dependent children and their ages; Reasons for needing the grant and what the grant will be spent on; and If required, supporting qualifying evidence depending on the specific type of grant the application is for. For example, this might be information related to the resident’s physical or mental health; or evidence to confirm employment, self-employment or a place on a further or higher-education course. 1.3. We will also collect information relating to gender, age bracket, ethnic origin, marital status, sexual orientation and religious beliefs. The provision of this information helps us to ensure that we are reaching a wide range of people with the funding we offer. This information is voluntary and you are not required to provide it. However, if you do provide this information, it is used in statistical form only and will not be used to make individual decisions about you or your application. WHAT WE DO WITH THE INFORMATION WE GATHER 2.1. It is in the legitimate interests of Longleigh to collect this information in order to understand the needs of the beneficiary groups we support and to provide those beneficiaries and stakeholders with a better service, and in particular for the following reasons: 2.1.1.1. To process applications for grants 2.1.1.2. Internal record keeping 2.1.1.3. To improve our services 2.1.1.4. Verifying and assessing funding applications 2.2. Where we have been provided with sensitive information, for example for our equality and diversity monitoring, this is provided voluntarily and on the basis of your consent. 2.1. It is in the legitimate interests of Longleigh to collect this information in order to understand the needs of the beneficiary groups we support and to provide those beneficiaries and stakeholders with a better service, and in particular for the following reasons: 2.1.1.1. To process applications for grants 2.1.1.2. Internal record keeping 2.1.1.3. To improve our services 2.1.1.4. Verifying and assessing funding applications 2.1.1.1. To process applications for grants 2.1.1.2. Internal record keeping 2.1.1.3. To improve our services 2.1.1.4. Verifying and assessing funding applications 2.2. Where we have been provided with sensitive information, for example for our equality and diversity monitoring, this is provided voluntarily and on the basis of your consent. DATA RETENTION 3.1 We only retain data for as long as necessary: Unsuccessful application: Retained for one year for audit and reporting purposes Sensitive personal data: Retained for three months following the completion of the grant. 3.2 Data may be retained longer where required by law or for dispute resolution 3.1 We only retain data for as long as necessary: Unsuccessful application: Retained for one year for audit and reporting purposes Sensitive personal data: Retained for three months following the completion of the grant. Unsuccessful application: Retained for one year for audit and reporting purposes Sensitive personal data: Retained for three months following the completion of the grant. 3.2 Data may be retained longer where required by law or for dispute resolution WHO WE WILL SHARE YOUR INFORMATION WITH 4.1 In relation to Longleigh’s Project & Research Grants, where you have applied to us for a grant, we will contact any referee whom you have identified and provide them with the information in your application form to enable them to verify this. 4.2 If you are a supporting staff member making an application on behalf of a resident, we may have need to ask you to provide us with additional data about the resident, which we reasonably believe is relevant to the consideration of the application. 4.3 We may share details with suppliers in order to fulfil grants, this may include name, phone number and address for deliveries of goods.) 4.4 We may share your information with regulatory bodies or legal authorities where required by law. 4.5 Other than as described above, we will not share, sell, distribute or lease your personal information to third parties unless we are required by law to do so. 4.1 In relation to Longleigh’s Project & Research Grants, where you have applied to us for a grant, we will contact any referee whom you have identified and provide them with the information in your application form to enable them to verify this. 4.2 If you are a supporting staff member making an application on behalf of a resident, we may have need to ask you to provide us with additional data about the resident, which we reasonably believe is relevant to the consideration of the application. 4.3 We may share details with suppliers in order to fulfil grants, this may include name, phone number and address for deliveries of goods.) 4.4 We may share your information with regulatory bodies or legal authorities where required by law. 4.5 Other than as described above, we will not share, sell, distribute or lease your personal information to third parties unless we are required by law to do so. CONTROLLING YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION Under UK GDPR, you have the right to: access personal data we hold about you request corrections to inaccurate data request deletion of data in certain circumstances restrict processing of your data object to how we process your data, including direct marketing request data portability for electronically processed data withdraw consent for sensitive data processing (e.g., health information) lodge a complaint with the information commissioner’s office (ICO) if you believe your data is not handled properly ( www.ico.org.uk ) Under UK GDPR, you have the right to: access personal data we hold about you request corrections to inaccurate data request deletion of data in certain circumstances restrict processing of your data object to how we process your data, including direct marketing request data portability for electronically processed data withdraw consent for sensitive data processing (e.g., health information) lodge a complaint with the information commissioner’s office (ICO) if you believe your data is not handled properly ( www.ico.org.uk ) access personal data we hold about you request corrections to inaccurate data request deletion of data in certain circumstances restrict processing of your data object to how we process your data, including direct marketing request data portability for electronically processed data withdraw consent for sensitive data processing (e.g., health information) lodge a complaint with the information commissioner’s office (ICO) if you believe your data is not handled properly ( www.ico.org.uk ) SECURITY We are committed to ensuring that your information is secure. In order to prevent unauthorised access or disclosure, we have put in place suitable physical, electronic and managerial procedures to safeguard and secure the information we collect online. We are committed to ensuring that your information is secure. In order to prevent unauthorised access or disclosure, we have put in place suitable physical, electronic and managerial procedures to safeguard and secure the information we collect online. LINKS TO OTHER WEBSITES 7.1 Our website may contain links to other websites of interest. However, once you have used these links to leave our site, you should note that we do not have any control over that other website. Therefore, we cannot be responsible for the protection and privacy of any information which you provide whilst visiting such sites and such sites are not governed by this privacy statement. You should exercise caution and look at the privacy statement applicable to the website in question. 7.1 Our website may contain links to other websites of interest. However, once you have used these links to leave our site, you should note that we do not have any control over that other website. Therefore, we cannot be responsible for the protection and privacy of any information which you provide whilst visiting such sites and such sites are not governed by this privacy statement. You should exercise caution and look at the privacy statement applicable to the website in question. CONTACT US If you have any queries or questions about the way we use your information, or talk to us about any of your rights as set out above, please contact us by email at: dataprotection@longleigh.org If you have any queries or questions about the way we use your information, or talk to us about any of your rights as set out above, please contact us by email at: dataprotection@longleigh.org Grants available from Longleigh Individual Grants Circles of Support Home Our Grants Toggle Sub Menu Individual Grants Circles of Support Grantee Voices Individual Grants Circles of Support Grantee Voices Research Grants About Us Toggle Sub Menu About Us Our Team Our Trustees Our Annual Reviews Our Data and 360Giving About Us Our Team Our Trustees Our Annual Reviews Our Data and 360Giving News and Stories Contact Us Menu Go to top