Circles of Support Life can be challenging at times, especially with the effects of cost of living pressures. Longleigh offers two services to support Stonewater customers with their emotional and financial wellbeing. We call these wraparound services, ‘Circles of Support’. Circles of Support focuses on both financial and emotional wellbeing, recognising that different parts of life are connected. If one area feels out of balance, it can affect everything else. Circles of Support is here to provide practical help and guidance, giving you the space to move forward at your own pace. Financial Wellbeing The Longleigh Financial Wellbeing Service is delivered by Clean Slate and can help with: Money guidance : 2-3 weeks, 4.5 hours of one-to-one support Integrated money guidance and benefits support : 5-6 weeks, 8 hours of one-to-one support Integrated money guidance and debt advice : 5-6 weeks, 8 hours of one-to-one support, delivered in partnership with CMA Money first employment support : 2-3 weeks, 4.5 hours of one-to-one support All clients receive a follow-up 3 months after their case is completed. You can self-refer here or a Stonewater staff member can refer on your behalf. Mental Wellbeing Longleigh Foundation funds Kaleidoscope Plus Group (KPG) to provide personalised support to help improve emotional wellbeing or handle specific concerns. Support includes: One initial assessment session Six person-centred counselling sessions You can self-refer here or a Stonewater staff member can refer on your behalf. Find out more: Circles of Support Leaflet Grants available from Longleigh Individual Grants Circles of Support Home Our Grants Toggle Sub Menu Individual Grants Circles of Support Grantee Voices Individual Grants Circles of Support Grantee Voices Research Grants About Us Toggle Sub Menu About Us Our Team Our Trustees Our Annual Reviews Our Data and 360Giving About Us Our Team Our Trustees Our Annual Reviews Our Data and 360Giving News and Stories Contact Us Menu Go to top