Policies for Grantmaking This page covers all the individual policies which you will need to know in relation to our grantmaking policy and eligibility. Our Minimum Requirements for All Grants Your organisation must be able to provide: A copy of your constitution or governing document, containing: Charitable objectives relevant to your work. A clear not-for-profit clause. A dissolution clause or asset lock . This should show what would happen if your organisation closed. It must show that funds will be given to an organisation with similar charitable aims as yours if you close. Charitable objectives relevant to your work. A clear not-for-profit clause. A dissolution clause or asset lock . This should show what would happen if your organisation closed. It must show that funds will be given to an organisation with similar charitable aims as yours if you close. A minimum of three, unrelated trustees/directors, depending on your structure. If you pay any of your trustees/directors, beyond reasonable expenses, you must provide us with a: Written agreement outlining what they are paid for, and how much. Conflict of interest policy which outlines how decisions relating to this payment are made. If you are a Community Interest Company, this must be outlined in your Governing document. You cannot pay more than 50% of your governing members in this way. All payments must be carried out in line with government regulations . Your most recent set of annual accounts. These should be dated within the last 18-months. If you are a new organisation and do not have these, we will expect to see a clear financial plan for the year. A bank statement in your organisation’s name, dated within the last 3 months. Payments must require at least two unrelated signatories/authorisations. A safeguarding policy in your organisation’s own name. Your policy must: Include clear steps you will take in the event of a concern, incident, and/or disclosure relating to safeguarding. This should include internal process and external escalation. Include the name and contact details of your named safeguarding lead. Be refreshed at regular, designated intervals, at least every 3 years. You must have a designated safeguarding lead, or similar named role. Up to date and appropriate training for all staff, volunteers, and trustees who engage in face-to-face delivery or contact with children and young people. Appropriate background checks (e.g. from the Disclosure and Barring Service [DBS]) for all relevant staff members. For more information on our safeguarding standards and best practice recommendations, please see our Safeguarding Requirements Document . The information above is also presented in this short video: The information above is also presented in this short video: What can’t we fund? What can’t we fund? Whilst we fund a huge variety of projects and organisations, there are some things which we are unable to give money to. If your application is for any of the work below, we won’t be able to give you a grant. Work which benefits people who live outside of Cheshire East, Cheshire West and Chester, or Warrington, unless the programme specifically says so. Work that has already taken place, or will have taken place by the time your grant is awarded. Statutory bodies, such as schools, hospitals, prisons, or Local Authorities. Capital projects, except through our Small Grants programme, where you are asking for at least 50% of the total cost. Projects which promote any religion or religious beliefs. We can still fund religious organisations for other work. Medical treatment or support. General awareness raising or lobbying. Bursaries or contributions to other fundraisers. Political activity. Work which cannot start within a year of your grant award date. Unspecified expenditure. Although we may not always ask you for a complete budget, we will still want to have a reasonable idea of how any money will be spent. Policy A-Z Policy A-Z A B C E F G H I L M N O P R S T U V A Animal Welfare Whilst we can fund work involving animals, they cannot be the primary beneficiary of the work. For example, we could support work involving Equine Therapy, or Guide Dogs for people who are visually impaired; however, we could not fund an animal shelter. In short, people must be the main beneficiary of any work. Whilst we can fund work involving animals, they cannot be the primary beneficiary of the work. For example, we could support work involving Equine Therapy, or Guide Dogs for people who are visually impaired; however, we could not fund an animal shelter. In short, people must be the main beneficiary of any work. Awareness Raising We do not fund awareness raising or general educational work unless there are clear outcomes connected directly to the delivery. If you do apply for this type of work, we will expect to see how your target audience are clearly at risk of the issues raised, and that this work will have a measurable outcome related to this improved knowledge. We do not fund awareness raising or general educational work unless there are clear outcomes connected directly to the delivery. If you do apply for this type of work, we will expect to see how your target audience are clearly at risk of the issues raised, and that this work will have a measurable outcome related to this improved knowledge. B Buildings and Capital work We do not fund capital or building work. The exception to this is through our Small Grants programme where you are asking for at least 50% of the total cost. For example, if you wished to purchase/install accessible playground equipment which costs £4,000, you would have to request at least £2,000 of the total cost from us. We do not fund capital or building work. The exception to this is through our Small Grants programme where you are asking for at least 50% of the total cost. For example, if you wished to purchase/install accessible playground equipment which costs £4,000, you would have to request at least £2,000 of the total cost from us. Bursaries We do not fund bursaries or funding for individuals. We do not fund bursaries or funding for individuals. C Charity Registration You do not have to be a registered charity to apply to us, and we welcome applications from all organisations who fit our eligibility criteria. However, the Charity Commission recommends that you should register with them once your charity has an income of over £5,000 a year. If you meet this threshold, we will expect you to be working towards this. You do not have to be a registered charity to apply to us, and we welcome applications from all organisations who fit our eligibility criteria. However, the Charity Commission recommends that you should register with them once your charity has an income of over £5,000 a year. If you meet this threshold, we will expect you to be working towards this. Continuation Funding (2-3 Years) We can fund continuation funding. If you are currently funded by us, you are able to submit an application for the same work, so long as it starts after your current funded work finishes. Please note, we will not release further grants until you have completed satisfactory monitoring and evaluation on any previous ones. We can fund continuation funding. If you are currently funded by us, you are able to submit an application for the same work, so long as it starts after your current funded work finishes. Please note, we will not release further grants until you have completed satisfactory monitoring and evaluation on any previous ones. Continuation Funding (4+ Years) We will not fund the same project continuously for longer than 3 years. For an organisation to receive over 3 years of funding, they must demonstrate that the work they are applying for is a totally separate project, working with a different group of people. After a 12 month funding gap, we will consider your project again, but may wish to see how your organisation has considered the wider financial sustainability of the project. The definition of what constitutes 'a separate project' is entirely at the discretion of Cheshire Community Foundation. We will not fund the same project continuously for longer than 3 years. For an organisation to receive over 3 years of funding, they must demonstrate that the work they are applying for is a totally separate project, working with a different group of people. After a 12 month funding gap, we will consider your project again, but may wish to see how your organisation has considered the wider financial sustainability of the project. The definition of what constitutes 'a separate project' is entirely at the discretion of Cheshire Community Foundation. Core Costs We can fund core costs where there is a clear contribution to the programme outcomes and Cheshire Community Foundation's charitable objectives. We can fund core costs where there is a clear contribution to the programme outcomes and Cheshire Community Foundation's charitable objectives. Counselling / Therapy Safeguarding is key. We will not fund delivery for regulated activity where qualifications/registrations are not in place with the appropriate regulatory body (e.g. BACP, HCPC). Safeguarding is key. We will not fund delivery for regulated activity where qualifications/registrations are not in place with the appropriate regulatory body (e.g. BACP, HCPC). E Events (One-Off) We can fund one-off events if they can evidence significant outcomes for those who participate/attend. Applications for these would usually come through our Small Grants programme. The maximum contribution we can make to a one-off event (such as a trip, outing, or event) is £500. By a 'one-off event' we mean a time-limited, short scaled activity which does not repeat. For example, a trip to a theatre, or a weekend-long festival. We can fund one-off events if they can evidence significant outcomes for those who participate/attend. Applications for these would usually come through our Small Grants programme. The maximum contribution we can make to a one-off event (such as a trip, outing, or event) is £500. By a 'one-off event' we mean a time-limited, short scaled activity which does not repeat. For example, a trip to a theatre, or a weekend-long festival. Exclusive Provision (e.g. Single Gender/Faith/Community work) We expect all funded work to be inclusive, however, we understand that for religious, cultural, or practical reasons, it can sometimes be beneficial to deliver work which only engages a particular gender or faith. If you are applying for a project which is exclusive to only a small number of people, we will expect to clearly see: There is a clear rational behind this decision. Alternate provision is provided where possible and appropriate. Activities are not divided based on assumptions or stereotypes about the target audience, and that their views are taken into account when planning the activity. We expect all funded work to be inclusive, however, we understand that for religious, cultural, or practical reasons, it can sometimes be beneficial to deliver work which only engages a particular gender or faith. If you are applying for a project which is exclusive to only a small number of people, we will expect to clearly see: There is a clear rational behind this decision. Alternate provision is provided where possible and appropriate. Activities are not divided based on assumptions or stereotypes about the target audience, and that their views are taken into account when planning the activity. F Fees We expect all funded projects to be inclusive wherever possible, and would not fund work where financial capacity is a barrier to anyone engaging. Whilst you are able to charge appropriate fees from people you work with, we would often expect to see a policy in place which outlines how you would help people to access your project if they could not afford to contribute (e.g. a fee-waive policy). We expect all funded projects to be inclusive wherever possible, and would not fund work where financial capacity is a barrier to anyone engaging. Whilst you are able to charge appropriate fees from people you work with, we would often expect to see a policy in place which outlines how you would help people to access your project if they could not afford to contribute (e.g. a fee-waive policy). Food Insecurity / Food Banks We can fund food banks and projects which work with food poverty, as well as contributions to stock. We often look to see if projects working in this area have a longer-term outlook, and provide wraparound support which will help people lessen their reliance on this kind of support in the future. We also know that many people value discretion when accessing these services, and we would encourage applicants to consider this when designing their project. We can fund food banks and projects which work with food poverty, as well as contributions to stock. We often look to see if projects working in this area have a longer-term outlook, and provide wraparound support which will help people lessen their reliance on this kind of support in the future. We also know that many people value discretion when accessing these services, and we would encourage applicants to consider this when designing their project. G Geography Unless specifically stated in the programme criteria, all applications must work with and/or benefit the people of Cheshire (Cheshire East and Cheshire West and Chester) and Warrington. We do not generally fund work in Halton, as this is part of the Liverpool City Region and a member of the Liverpool City Combined Authority. We also do not generally fund work in any areas which are now a part of Greater Manchester, such as Trafford or Stockport. Unless specifically stated in the programme criteria, all applications must work with and/or benefit the people of Cheshire (Cheshire East and Cheshire West and Chester) and Warrington. We do not generally fund work in Halton, as this is part of the Liverpool City Region and a member of the Liverpool City Combined Authority. We also do not generally fund work in any areas which are now a part of Greater Manchester, such as Trafford or Stockport. H Holidays and Residentials We can fund holidays and residential activity, including trips/excursions which take place outside of Cheshire and Warrington, as long as the beneficiaries of the project live in these areas on a permanent basis. We can fund holidays and residential activity, including trips/excursions which take place outside of Cheshire and Warrington, as long as the beneficiaries of the project live in these areas on a permanent basis. Homelessness Whilst we can support work with people who are homeless or at risk of homelessness, we are unable to fund shelter or accommodation, as this is a statutory responsibility. Whilst we can support work with people who are homeless or at risk of homelessness, we are unable to fund shelter or accommodation, as this is a statutory responsibility. Hospices We can fund hospices, often even when their income is over £3m per year. Whilst we have special rules around the size of the organisations we fund (See: Income, Turnover, and Large Organisations), we understand that Hospices are usually best placed to deliver their specialist work. As such, we are able to fund them if they can demonstrate this. We can fund hospices, often even when their income is over £3m per year. Whilst we have special rules around the size of the organisations we fund (See: Income, Turnover, and Large Organisations), we understand that Hospices are usually best placed to deliver their specialist work. As such, we are able to fund them if they can demonstrate this. Hospitals We cannot fund hospitals or other NHS bodies. We cannot fund hospitals or other NHS bodies. I Income, Turnover, and Large Organisations As a funder, we usually prioritise smaller organisations who are embedded within the communities with whom they work. We do not frequently fund organisations with an income of greater than £3 million in the most recent, complete financial year. If an organisation’s income does exceed this, we will seek to understand why they are the best placed organisation to deliver that work, and that they have an exceptional understanding and track record of working with their target beneficiaries. As a funder, we usually prioritise smaller organisations who are embedded within the communities with whom they work. We do not frequently fund organisations with an income of greater than £3 million in the most recent, complete financial year. If an organisation’s income does exceed this, we will seek to understand why they are the best placed organisation to deliver that work, and that they have an exceptional understanding and track record of working with their target beneficiaries. Individual Children Whilst we can support work with a single beneficiary, it is unlikely that a project such as this can demonstrate the outcomes required when focussed on an individual. All applications must come from an organisation which meets our grantmaking principles and minimum standards. Whilst we can support work with a single beneficiary, it is unlikely that a project such as this can demonstrate the outcomes required when focussed on an individual. All applications must come from an organisation which meets our grantmaking principles and minimum standards. L Local Authorities and NHS bodies We cannot fund local authorities, hospitals or other NHS bodies. We cannot fund local authorities, hospitals or other NHS bodies. M Medical Projects We can only support medical projects which clearly fall out of the statutory responsibility of the NHS and other governmental organisations. If you apply for funding for a project which supports individuals’ medical needs, you will need to clearly outline how this is additional to the support provided by statutory provision. We can only support medical projects which clearly fall out of the statutory responsibility of the NHS and other governmental organisations. If you apply for funding for a project which supports individuals’ medical needs, you will need to clearly outline how this is additional to the support provided by statutory provision. Minibuses and Vehicles We cannot fund minibuses or motor vehicles. We cannot fund minibuses or motor vehicles. Minimum Standards for grantmaking All applications must meet our grantmaking principles and minimum standards, which can be found at the top of this page. The definition of what constitutes 'a separate project' is entirely at the discretion of Cheshire Community Foundation. All applications must meet our grantmaking principles and minimum standards, which can be found at the top of this page. The definition of what constitutes 'a separate project' is entirely at the discretion of Cheshire Community Foundation. N New Organisations We are able to fund new organisations. In these cases, it is important to consider if your organisation has a demonstrable capacity to deliver the work, as well as the required skills and expertise. We will expect your application to clearly outline this if you do not have a relevant track record in place. If you do not yet have accounts in place, we will accept a financial forecast. We are able to fund new organisations. In these cases, it is important to consider if your organisation has a demonstrable capacity to deliver the work, as well as the required skills and expertise. We will expect your application to clearly outline this if you do not have a relevant track record in place. If you do not yet have accounts in place, we will accept a financial forecast. O Organisational Eligibility We expect all organisations to have the following in place: Not for profit clause Appropriate Asset Locks and Dissolution Clauses Governing Document, Accounts/Financial Plan Bank Statement within 3 months Bank account in your organisations name w/ 2 unrelated signatories Financial accounts examined/audited in line with recommendations from the appropriate regulatory body Safeguarding policies 3 Unrelated trustees/directors/committee We expect all organisations to have the following in place: Not for profit clause Appropriate Asset Locks and Dissolution Clauses Governing Document, Accounts/Financial Plan Bank Statement within 3 months Bank account in your organisations name w/ 2 unrelated signatories Financial accounts examined/audited in line with recommendations from the appropriate regulatory body Safeguarding policies 3 Unrelated trustees/directors/committee Out-Of-Area Organisations We can consider applications from out-of-area organisations if they fit our other criteria and the work benefits residents from Cheshire and Warrington; however, we will seek to prioritise smaller organisations who are local to the area. We expect all successful applicants to be able to demonstrate that they are the best placed organisation to deliver that work, and that they have an exceptional understanding and track record of working with their target beneficiaries. If an organisation does not have a thorough understanding of the community with whom they wish to work, then it is unlikely that we will be able to fund them. We can consider applications from out-of-area organisations if they fit our other criteria and the work benefits residents from Cheshire and Warrington; however, we will seek to prioritise smaller organisations who are local to the area. We expect all successful applicants to be able to demonstrate that they are the best placed organisation to deliver that work, and that they have an exceptional understanding and track record of working with their target beneficiaries. If an organisation does not have a thorough understanding of the community with whom they wish to work, then it is unlikely that we will be able to fund them. P Partnership Work We are able to fund organisations which apply in partnership; however, we will expect one organisation to be the lead partner, and where appropriate we will expect to see a partnership agreement and/or memorandum of understanding which outlines the arrangement between both parties. We are able to fund organisations which apply in partnership; however, we will expect one organisation to be the lead partner, and where appropriate we will expect to see a partnership agreement and/or memorandum of understanding which outlines the arrangement between both parties. Payment of Governing Body Members Whilst most organisations will not pay their governing body members, we can support this if it is in line with your regulatory body requirements. We are able to fund payment of a governing body member for services outside their role so long as there is a written agreement between the two parties, which outlines the limits of the payment, as well as a clear conflict of interest policy in place to manage the decisions around how the payments will be made. If you are a Community Interest Company (CIC), this must be clearly detailed in your governing document. If you are a Registered Charity, the trustees must agree that the payment is in the best interests of the charity, and fewer than half of your trustees must be paid in this way. Whilst most organisations will not pay their governing body members, we can support this if it is in line with your regulatory body requirements. We are able to fund payment of a governing body member for services outside their role so long as there is a written agreement between the two parties, which outlines the limits of the payment, as well as a clear conflict of interest policy in place to manage the decisions around how the payments will be made. If you are a Community Interest Company (CIC), this must be clearly detailed in your governing document. If you are a Registered Charity, the trustees must agree that the payment is in the best interests of the charity, and fewer than half of your trustees must be paid in this way. Playgroups and Playschemes We are only able to support playgroups and playschemes with appropriate Ofsted registration. We are only able to support playgroups and playschemes with appropriate Ofsted registration. Political Activity We are unable to support any project which lobbies, or attempts to spread or further any particular political cause. We are unable to support any project which lobbies, or attempts to spread or further any particular political cause. Prisons Whilst we cannot fund prisons directly, we are able to support work which takes place in prisons. Whilst we cannot fund prisons directly, we are able to support work which takes place in prisons. R Religious Organisations We can fund religious organisations, however we are unable to support any project which proselytises or preaches a faith. We can fund religious organisations, however we are unable to support any project which proselytises or preaches a faith. Reserves We will not usually fund organisations with more than 12 months of unrestricted reserves, unless there is a clear reason for why they are holding these. If your organisation is holding a large amount of reserves, we are likely to ask for your reasoning behind this. We will not usually fund organisations with more than 12 months of unrestricted reserves, unless there is a clear reason for why they are holding these. If your organisation is holding a large amount of reserves, we are likely to ask for your reasoning behind this. Retrospective Funding We cannot fund activity which has already taken place. Any work which you apply for must take place after the date your decision is communicated, not the date your application is submitted. We cannot fund activity which has already taken place. Any work which you apply for must take place after the date your decision is communicated, not the date your application is submitted. S Safeguarding We expect all organisations to demonstrate an extremely strong commitment to safeguarding Children, Young People, and Vulnerable Adults. Your organisation should have a safeguarding policy in its own name, which outlines your processes, responsibilities, and referral pathways. All organisations should have a named Designated Safeguarding Lead (DSL) or similar to take responsibility for this. All staff and volunteers should have appropriate background checks which are refreshed on a regular basis. All staff, and your governing body, should also have appropriate training in place which is relevant to their role and covers your organisation's policies. We would also expect to see appropriate risk-assessments in place for any activities which require them. Finally, we would look to see a culture of safeguarding in your organisation, which is embedded in all staff and volunteers, rather than a set of policies which do not guide your work on a day-to-day basis. We expect all organisations to demonstrate an extremely strong commitment to safeguarding Children, Young People, and Vulnerable Adults. Your organisation should have a safeguarding policy in its own name, which outlines your processes, responsibilities, and referral pathways. All organisations should have a named Designated Safeguarding Lead (DSL) or similar to take responsibility for this. All staff and volunteers should have appropriate background checks which are refreshed on a regular basis. All staff, and your governing body, should also have appropriate training in place which is relevant to their role and covers your organisation's policies. We would also expect to see appropriate risk-assessments in place for any activities which require them. Finally, we would look to see a culture of safeguarding in your organisation, which is embedded in all staff and volunteers, rather than a set of policies which do not guide your work on a day-to-day basis. Schools and school-time work We are able to fund schools and other educational establishments, but only when they can demonstrate that the funded work is additional to curricular activity, and not replacing statutory provision (including PSHE). Work with Children and Young People which takes place within the school day cannot be supported unless there is a clearly defined reason as to why this is in the best interests of the child, and that it would not remove them from their statutory education. We are able to fund school time work with young people who are classed as NEET (Not in Education, Employment, or Training) who would otherwise not miss any educational provision. We can fund work which takes place after school or in play/break times. We are able to fund schools and other educational establishments, but only when they can demonstrate that the funded work is additional to curricular activity, and not replacing statutory provision (including PSHE). Work with Children and Young People which takes place within the school day cannot be supported unless there is a clearly defined reason as to why this is in the best interests of the child, and that it would not remove them from their statutory education. We are able to fund school time work with young people who are classed as NEET (Not in Education, Employment, or Training) who would otherwise not miss any educational provision. We can fund work which takes place after school or in play/break times. Sports and Physical Activities Whilst we can fund work involving sport and physical activity, we cannot fund: Activities focussed around attainment or competitive achievement. (i.e. participation in a league or tournament) Sport where the primary focus is engagement with the activity itself. Any sporting or physical activities which we fund must be able to show additional outcomes. These outcomes must be in line with our priorities as a funder, and we are particularly focussed on activities which reduce the impacts of inequity or reduce them in future. Whilst we can fund work involving sport and physical activity, we cannot fund: Activities focussed around attainment or competitive achievement. (i.e. participation in a league or tournament) Sport where the primary focus is engagement with the activity itself. Any sporting or physical activities which we fund must be able to show additional outcomes. These outcomes must be in line with our priorities as a funder, and we are particularly focussed on activities which reduce the impacts of inequity or reduce them in future. Statutory Overlap We cannot fund public bodies, local authorities, or NHS bodies. Any work funded by any organisation must be additional to the statutory responsibility of the government and local authority. We cannot fund public bodies, local authorities, or NHS bodies. Any work funded by any organisation must be additional to the statutory responsibility of the government and local authority. T Training Costs We can fund training in instances where the skills gained would support the outcomes of the programme, unless specifically stated otherwise. We can fund training in instances where the skills gained would support the outcomes of the programme, unless specifically stated otherwise. U UK-Wide and Federated Organisations We can fund applications from groups who are part of a larger, wider network of organisations. In these cases, we will expect to see relevant documentation in the name of your organisation, not your parent body, and clear evidence of which policies are used in each individual situation. For example, we will need to see an extremely clear process and pathway for all safeguarding concerns, and in what instances you would use each policy etc. If there is any uncertainty or lack of clarity as to which policies apply and when, we will be unable to fund you. We can fund applications from groups who are part of a larger, wider network of organisations. In these cases, we will expect to see relevant documentation in the name of your organisation, not your parent body, and clear evidence of which policies are used in each individual situation. For example, we will need to see an extremely clear process and pathway for all safeguarding concerns, and in what instances you would use each policy etc. If there is any uncertainty or lack of clarity as to which policies apply and when, we will be unable to fund you. Unregistered Organisations Whilst your organisation must be formally constituted in some way, you do not need to be registered to apply to us. However, we expect organisations to register in line with regulatory body recommendations. For example, the Charity Commission recommends that you should register with them once your charity has an income of over £5,000 a year. If you meet this threshold, we will expect you to be working towards this. Whilst your organisation must be formally constituted in some way, you do not need to be registered to apply to us. However, we expect organisations to register in line with regulatory body recommendations. For example, the Charity Commission recommends that you should register with them once your charity has an income of over £5,000 a year. If you meet this threshold, we will expect you to be working towards this. V Volunteer Expenses Volunteer expenses can only be paid if they are reimbursing volunteers. We cannot pay volunteers a pre-determined a set amount. Volunteer expenses can only be paid if they are reimbursing volunteers. We cannot pay volunteers a pre-determined a set amount. The Challenge Academy Trust, Broomfields Road, Warrington, WA4 3AE T: 01606 330607 E: office@cheshirecommunityfoundation.org.uk Cheshire Community Foundation adheres to the Fundraising Code of Practice | Fundraising Regulator Unique ID: 020331 | Registered Charity Number: 1143711 | Company Reg No: 07731278 Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy Website by Windmill Websites