Radius Foundation Grants Programme Closing Date 11.59pm November 2nd, 2025 Theme Grants working in one of four programme areas which improve lives in Crewe. Max Grant £2,500 Grant making Priorities and Principles Radius Foundation Grants Programme Guidance Radius Foundation Grants Programme Key Questions Cheshire Community Foundation are excited to announce the opening of the Radius Foundation Grants Programme. To coincide with their 35th anniversary celebration, Radius Limited are generously supporting grants of up to £2,500 in the Crewe area. How Much? Up to £2,500 What for? Projects up to 6 months in length which: Empower young people and support skills and education/employment Promote diversity and gender equality Champion positive mental health and wellbeing Support people with disabilities Where? Crewe. This programme will fund organisations which work in at least one of the following areas: Empowering young people and supporting skills and education/employment Promoting diversity and gender equality Championing positive mental health and wellbeing Supporting people with disabilities Organisations will be able to apply for any costs, including salaries, equipment, travel, and related core costs. Applicants must be able to demonstrate how each cost (including core costs) will tangibly be linked to specific outcomes, ideally including information on numbers of people impacted. Organisations can apply for up to £2,500 for restricted and core costs. They must be able to show that the grant will be used towards supporting their organisation to deliver its vital work in the Crewe community. All funds must be spent within 6 months of their award. These grants can be used on salaries, project costs, core costs, or in any other way which you believe will help your organisation deliver the vital work which your community needs. All grants must be from organisations based within the Crewe area with an annual turnover of under £250,000. All funded projects must be delivering work within a 3-mile radius of the Radius Head Office, which is located in the post code CW1 6EG. Applicants must also be able to show that they meet our grantmaking principles and minimum requirements. This programme will open for applications on the 29th September 2025 and will close for new applications on the 2nd November 2025. We will aim to let people know of their decision in December 2025 Grants should be spent within a 6-month time period. They will then be expected to provide a brief end of grant report, including a case study/story showing how they have helped support people in the categories above. All applications must be made online via our online application form, here . Depending on demand, we may choose not to take every application through a full assessment. This decision will be made on how closely your application fits the programme aims. If we decide not to take your application through the full process, you may hear back from us sooner than the above date. If you have any questions, you can email us to arrange a chat via grants@cheshirecommunityfoundation.org.uk or call the grants team on 01606 330607. At Cheshire Community Foundation, we believe that everyone should be able to access our funding opportunities fairly. We recognise that some people may experience barriers when applying to us. If you need any additional support applying for any of our grant programmes, for whatever reason, please contact us at grants@cheshirecommunityfoundation.org.uk, or by calling 01606 330607. A member of our team will be happy to support you on your application journey, or to find alternative ways (such as paper, video, verbal, online, face-to-face or other methods) for you to get us the information we need to assess your application. The Challenge Academy Trust, Broomfields Road, Warrington, WA4 3AE T: 01606 330607 E: office@cheshirecommunityfoundation.org.uk Cheshire Community Foundation adheres to the Fundraising Code of Practice | Fundraising Regulator Unique ID: 020331 | Registered Charity Number: 1143711 | Company Reg No: 07731278 Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy Website by Windmill Websites