Hand in hand with parents Thriving Families Thriving Families Parenting can be tough – but with the right support, every family can thrive. Thriving Families provides early intervention for parents facing challenges, helping them navigate life’s ups and downs with confidence. Your donation ensures that parents in Chester, Ellesmere Port, Winsford, and Northwich receive practical guidance, emotional support, and the resources they need to keep their families strong. We need to raise £500,000 over the next 18 months. Donate today, because every step counts. Across Cheshire West and Chester, families are facing mounting challenges. We are working with the council to ensure the most pressing needs are met. In Chester and Ellesmere Port, Koala North West provides in-home support to parents, helping them manage routines, build resilience, and strengthen family bonds. In Winsford and Northwich, Home-Start offers vital guidance to families of all ages, empowering them to cope with everyday struggles and build positive home environments. The need is urgent. 30% of children aged 0–15 in Cheshire West and Chester are living in relative poverty. 20% of students in Cheshire West and Chester were persistently absent from school (academic year 2022/23) With your support, we can reach more families before small bumps in the road become bigger challenges. Contact us to discuss a donation Or donate now online to help families thrive, every step of the way. Collaboration : Fostering partnerships and cooperation to achieve shared goals. Innovation : Encouraging creative and effective solutions to community challenges. Compassion : Prioritising empathy and understanding in all actions to support the community. Inclusivity : Promoting equity to ensure that everyone in Cheshire and Warrington can thrive. Integrity : striving for transparency, accountability, and ethical practices in all operations. Sustainability : Committing to long-term, holistic approaches that deliver our mission. The five pillars of our mission are aligned with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Tackle poverty and disadvantage SDG1, 2, 10 Improve mental health and wellbeing SDG3 Enable stronger, more resilient communities SDG11 Develop education, skills and employment SDG4, 8 Build awareness of climate change SDG7, 13 Companies and people who love Cheshire and Warrington, and trust us as the experts in local giving. They are aligned with our values and mission, and know that they couldn’t achieve a social impact alone. Whether giving though a business or B-Corp, leaving a gift in their will or giving personally during their lifetime, our donors enjoy all the rewards of doing local good, without the burden of due diligence or administration. Local groups doing local good, in Cheshire and Warrington. They are often led by inspiring people with lived experience of a challenge, and strengthened by volunteers. We have a dialogue, keeping us abreast of community needs and local developments in the sector. We aim to be proportionate in what we expect from our applicants. We are supportive to projects in delivery, when they are facing challenges or delays. Our vision is for local groups in Cheshire and Warrington to have access to grant funding, focused on addressing local need and empowering marginalised communities. This support is provided through the generosity of local people and businesses with a deep commitment to the region. We imagine a Cheshire and Warrington where everybody can thrive. Join us in making it a reality. The Challenge Academy Trust, Broomfields Road, Warrington, WA4 3AE T: 01606 330607 E: office@cheshirecommunityfoundation.org.uk Cheshire Community Foundation adheres to the Fundraising Code of Practice | Fundraising Regulator Unique ID: 020331 | Registered Charity Number: 1143711 | Company Reg No: 07731278 Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy Website by Windmill Websites