Who we are What we do Our funding Our blogs News By resourcing our partners across the UK, we strive to learn how to strengthen communities centring racial justice and systems change. Our funding Our approach to learning 2025 Change We Seek grants Our first round of Change We Seek grants In 2025, we began implementing our new Change We Seek strategy with an initial £10 million in grants through an invitation-only funding round. In this funding round, our team proactively identified organisations aligned with our mission to advance racial justice by resourcing power within communities. We also shifted decision-making power on our grant-making from the Board to the staff team who are closer to the work. Moving forward, we will continue to put our Change We Seek strategy into practice by identifying partners who are empowering their communities to build systems that are addressing the root causes of inequity through a racial justice lens. Our focus will be on resourcing organisations doing work that authentically uplifts communities and has the potential to bring about wider social, economic and environmental change which enables everyone to thrive. We will also prioritise initiatives that strengthen connections between diverse communities and contribute to building eco-systems that can move us towards more just and equitable ways of being/living. As we are just beginning to implement our new strategy, we envisage that we will continue to operate on an invitation-only basis for the foreseeable future . Learning approach Central to our strategy is taking a learning-driven approach with our grant partners, allowing our thinking to evolve as we work toward our mission. As we gain new insights, our funding strategy will adapt accordingly. This continuous learning process will also shape the development of our long-term grant-making. Change We Seek grant partners In March 2025, Tudor made £10 million in grants to 18 organisations across the UK. This includes 11 "learning partners" and seven organisations that are "exploration partners”. Learning partners are open to collaborating on a shared learning journey. Collectively they will receive a total of £9.3 million in core long-term funding, distributed over periods of up to six years. Exploration partners align with Tudor’s strategy and reflect our interest in elevating smaller organisations with ambitious visions for a different future. Each organisation will receive a core grant of £100,000. The 11 learning partners are: Birthrights Black Feminist Fund CIVIC SQUARE Coffee Afrik Friends, Families & Travellers Good Ancestor Movement Hood Futures Studio Project Tallawah Rekindle School Runnymede Trust The Ubele Initiative The seven exploration partners are: Decolonising Economics Land In Our Names Material Cultures People Dem Collective Sistren Legal Collective Tripod Training Ubuntu Women Shelter Legacy grant-holders Our legacy grant-holders are organisations that received grants before we finalised our new Change We Seek strategy towards the end of 2024. Over the last 10 years, we have funded over 1,500 organisations across the UK. Of those, we are still supporting nearly 500 organisations and will be taking care to wind down our previous programme responsibly over the next two to three years. Even though our previous grant-making programme is drawing to a close, in the 2023/24 financial year, we still committed over £15.9 million in grants to more than 320 organisations in communities across the UK. These were primarily one-year grants to organisations in our existing portfolio whose grants were due to end shortly and who no longer had the opportunity to reapply. We will continue to support all our existing grant-holders until the end of their existing grant arrangements and our commitment to them remains the same. Moving forward, our grant-making will focus exclusively on our new Change We Seek strategy . If you are one of our legacy grant-holders and have a current grant with us, please continue to get in touch if you have any questions or need any additional support and advice. If you want to read more about our past grant-making please go here . Sign up to our newsletter