Who we are What we do Our funding Our blogs News We are a grant-making charity with a mission to advance racial justice by resourcing power in communities. Who we are Our staff Our trustees Our culture Our origins Work with us Who we are Tudor is an endowed charitable trust, committed to deploying its capital in ways that centre racial justice as a lens through which to address the intersections of all injustice. This commitment will guide our grant-making. Strategically, and in line with our Change We Seek strategy, we take a systems thinking approach to vision a world that is more just and equitable. Instead of programmatic themes, we use learning questions through which we go deeper into root causes to identify solutions and pathways to new systems where all communities thrive. In April 2025, we announced the first set of grants made through our Change We Seek strategy. Our multi-year grants, up to £1 million each, were made to organisations that shared many of the following characteristics: Building clear pathways to demonstrating a world that moves away from scarcity so that all communities thrive. A commitment to working directly with communities in ways that prioritise shared knowledge, wisdom and ambition Models of operating through governance structures that prioritise systemic change over short-term outcomes. A commitment to building wealth in communities in ways that recognise that wealth is more than money and material assets. The learning from this first set of grants will guide us as we continue to build our portfolio of grant partners in ways that help us to build an interconnectivity between different civil society organisations and their ambitions for their communities. Changing our governance model We recognise that philanthropy has traditionally held power in ways that reinforce injustice through its investments, programmatic priorities and funding allocations. We believe this form of exercising “power over” should be rebalanced by fostering “power with” and “power within". This means placing communities and individuals at the heart of our work, providing resources to support their collective ambitions for transformative change in society. To address the power imbalances within philanthropy, Tudor undertook a transformative shift to reshape every aspect of our work: from establishing a more independent governance structure to rethinking what we do with our resources and refining our operational systems, policies, and practices. In 2024, this transformation led to a significant governance milestone as the Board of Trustees shifted from a family-rooted membership to an independent group of trustees . This also led to decisions about grant-making shifting from trustees to staff. Changing Tudor’s governance model was a key step in our transformation, enabling the trust to develop its Change We Seek strategy. Evolution of our strategy At this moment in Tudor’s history, our commitment is to go beyond simply providing resources, to being a partner and facilitator in supporting the long-term, systemic change required to build a just and equitable society. At the heart of this is the aspiration for a total asset approach, recognising that all our resources contribute to our mission, not just our grant-making. This includes the strength of our people, culture and relationships with our partners, alongside how we invest our assets and redistribute capital. The Staying Brave report, authored by Stephen Bediako, Louise Mousseau, and Fancy Sinantha, supported us to reimagine what this approach could mean for Tudor. Tudor’s Change We Seek strategy sets out a new vision "for a world as it should be," with a mission to empower communities by centring racial justice and driving systems change. New grant-making approach In 2025, the trust began implementing this strategy with an initial £10 million in grants through an invitation-only funding round. This approach reaffirms Tudor’s long-standing commitment to strengthening community groups, charities and grassroots initiatives by directing resources to communities most impacted by racism and other forms of discrimination. With the Change We Seek strategy now in place, we are winding down our previous grant-making programme, through which we still fund nearly 500 organisations driving positive change in communities across the UK. Moving forward, our grant-making will focus exclusively on the Change We Seek strategy, which is currently operating on an invitation-only basis . You can read more about our current grant-making approach here . Annual report and accounts You can view our latest annual report and accounts below: Annual report 2023-2024 Annual report 2022-2023 Sign up to our newsletter