Who we are What we do Our funding Our blogs News We want to embrace complexity and be more emergent in our practice. Our funding Our approach to learning 2025 Change We Seek grants Our approach to learning Change is never linear. We want to embrace complexity and be more emergent in our practice, course-correcting as we understand more. We can only work in this way if we walk alongside those we fund, building trusting and long-term relationships - practising power with, instead of power over. This approach underpins how we develop our learning questions, deepening our practice of how we learn with our grant partners. We acknowledge we don’t have the answers, but we know these questions will guide our actions. We will work with our behaviours , with an understanding that more exploration and meaningful dialogue is needed. This intention means we invite possibility, working with bravery, humility and creativity. We are committed to learning in public - sharing our emergent process as we go. Our 2024 learning questions We started our grant-making process in June 2024 with the following learning questions: How will we know when we are creating an eco-system where money and resources flow to meet the ambitions of our communities? ​ How will we know when Tudor is operating in a way that centres racial justice in our systems thinking? ​ How will we know when communities are interconnected and owning their ability to thrive? ​ How will we know when we are absorbing risk on behalf of the field building new systems? ​ How will we know when we are enabling good endings alongside renewal? How our learning questions are evolving By exploring these questions with our first set of grant partners, our learning questions have evolved. The following questions will guide who we fund in 2025/26: How will we know when organisations working at the intersection of racial justice and systemic change are operating from a position of strength and power? What does it take to bed in the mechanisms and practices needed so that multiple forms of funding flow to racialised communities? What does it take to deepen relationships between racialised communities and those they are forming alliances with? What does it look like to resource community practices that are regenerative in how they build ecosystems? What becomes possible when healing and rest is centred? These questions are not intended to replace our 2024 learning questions; rather, we see them as interconnected. They offer an opportunity to deepen our understanding and build on our learning from our first round of Change We Seek grants, as part of an iterative process. Sign up to our newsletter