Who we are What we do Our funding Our blogs News We fund organisations that work towards a world that is just and equitable. Moving away from scarcity to where there are enough resources for everyone. What we do Our transformation What we do Tudor’s vision is for a world as it should be. This means moving away from scarcity to where there are enough resources for everyone - towards a world that is just and equitable for all. Tudor’s mission is to advance racial justice by resourcing power within communities. We believe racial justice is the foundation for dismantling social, economic, and environmental injustice, so that everyone thrives. In 2025, we began to implement our new Change We Seek strategy with an initial £10 million in grants through an invitation-only funding round. This funding round focussed on organisations that are tackling racial injustice and fostering long-term systems change. You can find out more about these grants here . Change We Seek This short film introduces our Change We Seek strategy, launched in April 2025, and its role in shaping Tudor's grant-making focus. We extend our gratitude to our 2025 grant partners for generously sharing their photos and videos for this film. Video footage and photos courtesy of: Birthrights, CIVIC SQUARE, Coffee Afrik and The Ubele Initiative. Photos courtesy of: Black Feminist Fund, Friends, Families & Travellers, Hood Futures Studio (© Kara White), Rekindle School, Land In Our Names, Material Cultures (© Henry Woide, Paul Stringer, Michael Sabuni), Sistren Legal Collective (© Jonathan Padi) and Tripod Training. Thanks to filmmaker Isabelle Rose Povey for producing this video for us. Thanks also to photographer Samer Moukarzel for the Tudor staff photos. Centring racial justice and systems change Our definition of racial justice is a world that moves beyond racism and racial inequities to one where inclusive communities thrive in all our systems and structures. Achieving racial justice requires collective action and for those with lived experience to be resourced, centring their knowledge and strategies for change. Taking a regenerative approach means not only resourcing communities but also fostering lasting wealth, assets, and connections and also restoring the balance between people and the planet. Our commitment to racial justice is rooted in our understanding that racism operates both systemically and interpersonally. It is embedded in our institutions, structures, belief systems, and internalised behaviours. While racialised communities experience the most direct and harmful impacts, we believe that racism ultimately disadvantages our whole society as it deepens inequities and social divides. Taking a total asset approach At the heart of our Change We Seek strategy is our commitment to a total asset approach, recognising that all our resources contribute to our mission, not just our grant-making. For Tudor, this means valuing the strength of our people, culture, and relationships with partners, alongside how we allocate funding, invest our assets, and redistribute capital. The Staying Brave report, authored by Stephen Bediako, Louise Mousseau, and Fancy Sinantha, is supporting us to reimagine what this approach could mean for Tudor. Applying systems thinking to our work Systems thinking is a way of making sense of complexity. It enables you take a more holistic approach to understanding and addressing problems, by looking at systems in their entirety. It is about recognising the interconnectedness and relationships that exist between different parts of the system and seeing the whole. To help build systems thinking into our work we embrace a learning-driven approach with our grant partners, allowing our thinking to evolve as we work toward our mission. As we gain new insights, our funding strategy will adapt accordingly. This continuous learning process will also shape the development of our long-term grant-making and so we envisage that for the foreseeable future funding will continue to operate on an invitation-only basis . Staying brave Read our 2024 report reimagining what a total asset approach could mean for Tudor: Staying Brave - UK Philanthropy - Towards a transformational total asset approach Sign up to our newsletter