Our Team Our talented staff share the same vision and values of supporting people, grassroots charities and community groups. We work closely together forging strong partnerships with other charities, funders and infrastructure organisations. We are a local team and we are proud of it. Celia McKeon Chief Executive Celia is the Chief Executive of Two Ridings Community Foundation. She is responsible for organisational leadership and strategy, relationships with our donors and supporters, and oversight of all organisational activity. Stephanie Dunnill Head of Finance & Operations Stephanie is responsible for leading our finance and operations team and ensuring our finances and investments are effectively managed. Bec Horner Head of Communications & Partnerships Bec is responsible for our communications, and is passionate about people and connecting them. Thomas Waring Head of Grants Thomas is passionate about people, the environment and wellbeing. Katherine Odom Grants Coordinator Katherine is a busy Grants Coordinator leading on our Bettys funds, two wind farm funds as well as Women in Business and the Nidderdale Plus Community Fund. Sarah Norman Grants Officer With a commitment for all things community and an eye for detail, Sarah is our busy Grants Officer. Esther Damary George Communications & Events Officer Esther joined Bec in the Communications team in May 2024. With 17 years of experience in Marketing and Communications in the corporate space, Esther brings stories to life, creates a buzz on social media and organises fantastic events. Paula Bielby HEY Confident Futures Programme Manager Paula is the enthusiastic manager of the HEY Confident Futures Programme, dedicated to empowering those who support their community. Jen Stone Operations and Admin Officer Passionate about community, the NHS and people and with a knack for getting things organised, Jen is our busy Operations and Admin Officer Vicky Oulton Finance & Data Coordinator Vicky supports our financial processes with clarity and care and loves a colour spreadsheet. Graeme Dawson Grants Officer Committed to positive change in society and a belief in the power of the voluntary sector, Graeme is our busy Grants Officer.