About Two Ridings Community Foundation Two Ridings Community Foundation enable people who want to give across North and East Yorkshire, York and Hull to set up funds and donate to issues they care about, issues like poverty, children’s wellbeing, rural suicide and social isolation. From those funds and donations Two Ridings make grants and give support to hundreds of grassroots community and charitable organisations across Yorkshire. These organisations provide crucial services and life changing activities for local people. The grants we distribute tackle inequality, alleviate poverty, address loneliness and improve wellbeing. This enables people to survive, and thrive, and helps to create strong and sustainable communities. We work with funders, statutory bodies, families, businesses and individuals to realise a shared vision of a connected, thriving region for everyone. Since 2000, Two Ridings have delivered over £23 million into local communities benefiting thousands of people each year. As the accredited community foundation in the region, with strong partnerships and unique insights, donors trust us with their giving to champion positive change where it is needed most. Our people and knowledge are what makes us strong. We are governed by a board of trustees who work hand in hand with a core team of passionate staff . Based in York, but with our roots all over the region, at Two Ridings it’s all about local people being the difference. Our team Part of the fabric of our region Two Ridings is a passionate team of 11 staff who live and breathe the ethos of the foundation and are rooted in our region. We work in partnership with a number of organisations regionally and nationally constantly striving for positive change. Our board of trustees Championing positive change in Yorkshire Two Ridings is governed by a board of Trustees, made up of compassionate leaders and community advocates from the Yorkshire business, public and charitable sectors. Get involved Passionate volunteers making a difference Alongside our trustees and stakeholders, our volunteer assessors, panel and committee members make up a tour-de-force of people all striving to make a difference for the people of the region. Our values At Two Ridings we are committed to being: TRANSFORMATIVE We enable thriving, equitable and connected communities. TRUSTWORTHY We conduct our work with integrity, transparency and competence. COMPASSIONATE We treat each other and everyone we work with care, empathy and respect. CONNECTED We value the relationships, experience and insight rooted in local communities, and understand the impact of place on people’s lives. GENEROUS We share our resources and knowledge, work collaboratively and build inclusive relationships. Our vision A connected, equitable, thriving North and East Yorkshire for all. Our mission With people at the heart of everything we do, we inspire investment, develop relationships and make grants to transform lives and strengthen communities. Our timeline We are a Charitable Incorporated Organisation Two Ridings Community Foundation is a Charitable Incorporated Organisation | Charity Number: 1166471