We inspire people to give, help Yorkshire communities to thrive, and change lives together Since 2000, we have awarded over £23m in grants to grassroots community groups and charities to strengthen communities across Yorkshire. Working with generous supporters our grants and support reach the people most in need and help to create equality and opportunity in Yorkshire communities. If you want to give locally and effectively in North & East Yorkshire, Hull and York, give through Two Ridings Community Foundation. Find out all about Two Ridings Community Foundation 2025 sees us celebrating 25 years of community impact As we mark this milestone, we’re focused on the future—partnering with donors, funders and community groups to shape a brighter, more connected, thriving Yorkshire for the next 25 years and beyond. Start your giving Be the difference in your region Invest in the causes and communities in Yorkshire that matter to you with a trusted and knowledgeable regional foundation team. Choose whether to leave a legacy for long term impact, invest into a collective fund or focus on a specific place or need you feel passionate about. Talk through how your investment will make a difference and understand the benefits of charitable giving for you and your community. Apply for funding Find the funding that is right for you Apply directly for grants and funding available to local community groups and small charitable organisations in North & East Yorkshire, York and Hull. Search by the whole region or a specific place, and look for funding tackling specific issues. Read the full guidance notes to ensure your eligibility. Our impact this year £2.2 million distributed 477 grants awarded £4,800 average grant 58% applicant success rate Giving that transforms people's lives Impact Report 2024 In 2023-2024 Two Ridings gave away £2.2 million in grants to 477 groups improving the lives of thousands of local people. The average grant was £4,800. This is all thanks to generous donations and investment from people, businesses, councils and other funders driven to make a difference in Yorkshire. We could not do it without you. Connecting companies that care with causes that matter Join our Corporate Sponsorship Programme If you are a regional business that wants to give back to the local community, become a Community Champion. Build your brand as a generous organisation that gives charitably. We provide the expertise and support to turn your corporate giving into real, impactful change. Latest news from Two Ridings Celebrating 25 Years of community impact, told by the voices that matter most October 13, 2025 This year is a big one for us at Two Ridings Community Foundation. We’re celebrating 25 years of supporting grassroots ... A night to remember: Celebrating 25 years of community, connection and powerful change October 2, 2025 Last night, York Art Gallery sparkled with joy, laughter, and a few heartfelt tears as over 100 guests gathered with the ... THE LOCAL FUND supports 17 community groups across the Harrogate district by distributing £37,473 September 23, 2025 THE LOCAL FUND for the Harrogate District has recently allocated over £37,000 to support 17 community organisations, he ... Working in partnership with