Set up a fund in North or East Yorkshire Setting up a fund with Two Ridings is easy and straight forward. It’s like having your own charitable trust, but much simpler. It’s flexible, you are in charge and it’s tax efficient. We work alongside you, ensuring you are investing in the causes and places closest to your heart, ensuring your money makes the biggest difference. Working directly with us takes away the admin headaches – we do all the compliance, background checks and regulatory work for you. And we keep it local. With our expertise and connections throughout North and East Yorkshire, and your investment, we can make the biggest difference to the people in the region you love. We have options around the fund you could create with us: Endowment Where the money you invest with us is kept and the income generated from your investment is given out as grants Flow through Where all the money you gift is given out as grants over the course of a year. See your investment in action Creating a fund is a hugely enjoyable, satisfying and rewarding process, but seeing your investment in action is mind blowing. We give donors, and people thinking about investing in us, the opportunity to meet the groups we support and see and hear first-hand the difference they make to local people. People love this very personal insight into what Two Ridings is all about. If that feels like the first step to your charitable giving in Yorkshire, get in touch with Celia and she will curate the perfect day for you. Working alongside Fund holders HANSON 5 Young people reaching their potential The Hanson family are based in North Yorkshire, with a long standing affinity with Scarborough. They wanted to set up a fund that focused on young people and providing opportunities in an area they are connected to. The Hanson 5 Fund focuses on providing support in Scarborough to give younger adults the practical opportunities and emotional support to make a “step on the ladder” and reach their potential. Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust Trusting Two Ridings with a 5 year commitment “Two Ridings know what they are doing. They have a fantastic track record as a grant maker and we have complete faith in their judgement in administering our funds. They bring local expertise and knowledge and have long-lasting relationships with community organisations across the region.” Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust are passionate about providing opportunity for social change locally as well as nationally. They use Two Ridings as their intermediary with the community groups in York. They recently made a further five year commitment to the partnership. BETTYS AND TAYLORS FAMILY Providing philanthropic advice to a family business When the Bettys and Taylors family wanted to make a difference with their money they talked to Two Ridings about local and national charity giving. The local proposals from groups in Hull and Scarborough were better, cost less and had a bigger impact than the national charities. In memory of their Uncle Frederick, founder of Bettys, the Bettys and Taylors Family Fund award grants to community groups supporting disadvantaged young people in Yorkshire to gain skills and experience through food. Let's chat The first step to setting up a fund is a conversation Call Celia on 07519 485103 Email cmckeon@tworidingscf.org.uk