Apply for funding Two Ridings is a regional grant maker awarding funding from funds we steward for our donors and supporters. Our aim is to make a lasting difference to local people in our communities. Some of our funding is region-wide and some is place-based. Other funding is offered in order to tackle a specific issue or address different needs. When applying you must read the eligibility criteria and guidance notes for the funding before you apply to check it is the right funding for you. Scroll down to see all our funding currently available in the region. Alternatively click on the map or the area name below to bring up funding available in a specific area of Yorkshire. Click on ‘Learn more and apply’ button of the fund you are interested in, to learn more about it. Then read the full Guidance notes in the ‘How to apply’ section to see if your project is eligible. Click on the pink ‘Apply Now’ button to start your application. We are here to help We strive to make the application process as easy and straightforward as possible. Learn more about How to Apply or check out our Frequently Asked Questions There are lots of ways we can support you, listed after funds, but don’t hesitate to call us on 01904 929500 if you need help or email grants@tworidingscf.org.uk . Craven | East Riding of Yorkshire | Hambleton | Harrogate | Hull | Richmondshire | Ryedale | Scarborough | Selby | York Open Funds Bettys and Taylors Family Fund Community First Prime Opportunities Fund Fraisthorpe Wind Farm Community Benefit Fund Knabs Ridge Wind Farm Community Fund North Yorkshire Coast Fund Rusholme Wind Farm Fund Sixpenny Wood Wind Farm Fund Winter Resilience Fund York Community Fund Funds Opening Soon Bettys and Taylors Group Community Fund Hull Community Fund Nidderdale Plus Community Fund Small Grants THE LOCAL FUND for the Harrogate District Other Funds No funds available for this location Need help applying for funding? You have lots of options to get support! Read our How to Apply section It will definitely help! Frequently Asked Questions Your answer might be in our FAQs Come along to our monthly Drop-Ins We discuss grants all the time! Sign up to our Newsletter For a monthly update on grants & more Get in touch with our friendly Grants team. They are happy to help! Call us on 01904 929500 Email grants@tworidingscf.org.uk