What we've funded Two Ridings has been making a positive impact on the communities in North and East Yorkshire since 2000 2024 saw us award £2.2 million in 477 grants alleviating poverty, reducing inequality, improving health and wellbeing and creating sustainable communities. Making a difference in North and East Yorkshire View our latest Impact Report to see the impact of our donors’ support. At Two Ridings, we understand and nurture the power of community to transform people’s lives across our region. Every day, grassroots community organisations are tackling the most pressing challenges facing our society, such as poverty, loneliness, the mental health crisis and rural isolation. They offer support and advice, essential services, opportunities for creativity and self-expression, and new sources of social connection. They build relationships of trust, generosity and care. This is work that lights sparks in the darkness, rekindles hope and self-belief, and builds the networks of support and solidarity that enable real change. This is the power of community. At Two Ridings, we are constantly trying to make life easier for the community organisations we support. We do that by simplifying our application processes, speeding up our grant turn around and encouraging donors to be flexible with their funds and offering more support. Leaving no one behind Our funding reaches people from all walks of life across Yorkshire, including children and young people, families up against poverty, people experiencing mental and physical health challenges, global majority groups, the LGBTQ+ community and older people. We take particular care to ensure our funds support organisations working with those people and communities who experience the greatest disadvantage. We do not leave anyone behind. The places we support 14% East Riding │11% Harrogate │37% Hull │9% Rural North Yorkshire │ 7% Scarborough │5% Selby │ 15% York │ 2% Outside Region Making a difference locally 2024 £2.2 million distributed £4,800 average grant made 477 grants awarded Our community stories Empowering and supporting the community with clothes, shoes and other essential items The Clothing Bank: Selby Good Health and Wellbeing , No Poverty , Reduced Inequalities The magic ripple effect of sharing food together Tang Hall Community Centre: York No Poverty , Sustainable Cities and Communities , Zero Hunger Building a community at the Scarborough Over 50s Friendship Centre Scarborough Over 50s Friendship Centre: Scarborough Good Health and Wellbeing , Sustainable Cities and Communities