Improving the health of people and planet It is with heavy hearts that we announce the passing of our Chair of Trustees, Devika Waney Mokhtarzadeh. Devika was a driving force behind the Savitri Trust since its inception, working alongside her father, Arjun Waney OBE, to shape and guide our mission. Since 2018 we have gradually increased our funding towards the Environmental sector ; donating grants to protect, preserve and restore our planet. Through our partnerships with NGOs focusing on Environmental Law, Advocacy and Regeneration, we add our voice to the urgent call for action. Sight restoring surgeries have a transformational impact on whole communities. ‘Reach for the Stars’ is an inspiring short film shot by film director Sunhil Sippy which follows the story of a young girl, Bharti , as she regains her sight and with it, her hopes for the future. Powered by Embed YouTube Video Congratulations to our founder Mr Arjun Waney who has been recognised in The Queen’s Birthday Honours with an OBE for his extraordinary achievements as a businessman and philanthropist. We can restore sight to someone who is blind by cataracts. For Belvanti and her daughters this meant more than just improved vision, it allowed her to return to work and her daughters to go back to school with the hope for a brighter future. Watch our award winning film to see how their lives changed after cataract surgery. We are a small but ambitious charitable Trust founded in 2001 with the purpose of improving the lives of the most margnialised. We fund Community and Environmental projects that help improve the health of people and planet. ‘Small Change for Big Change’ is our fundraising partnership with London restaurants Roka, Zuma, Coya and LPM. A voluntary £1 donation is added to every bill and 100% goes directly to fund our projects, including ending cataract blindness in rural India. As part of our Community Health programme, we support and train palliative care nurses in rural India to deliver pain relief, holistic care and emotional support to people living with a terminal illness in their homes, however remote these are. ABOUT US We are a family Trust driven to help improve the health of people and our planet – founded in 2001 by Mr Arjun Waney motivated by compassion to help people living in poverty. The Trust is named in memory of his mother the late Mrs Savitri Waney and to this day very much remains a family trust with programme areas and project interests driven by causes and interests close to the family; ultimately health – of individuals, communities and the environment. YOUR SUPPORT We believe in collaboration – by working together we can make a bigger difference. You can join us in this work by donating alongside us to a project, raising awareness of our programmes with your networks, partner with us for an event or leave a legacy. We make sure 100% of your donation will go directly to benefit people that need it most. SMALL CHANGE for BIG CHANGE ‘Small Change for Big Change’ is our fundraising partnership with London restaurants Roka, Zuma, Coya and LPM. A voluntary £1 donation is added to every bill and 100% goes directly to fund our projects, including ending cataract blindness in rural India. Palliative Care is about adding life to days rather than days to life. PROGRAMME AREAS For twenty years, our focus has primarily been to fund community health and environment projects. Together with support from friends and donors we are grateful to have donated £14 million in grants. We look for partners who are experts in their field and who are open to working collaboratively so we can leverage our funding to make the most impact. Geographically, we are not limited to, but will always ensure a portion of funds are distributed to India, recognising the heritage of our Founding Trustees. COMMUNITY HEALTH Our work in health began in India listening to stories of people whose lives were blighted by cataract blindness and others powerless to access the palliative care and support needed at the end of their lives. These stories inspired our giving and ever since we have focussed on partnering with organisations that are working to improve the health and wellbeing of communities in rural India and beyond. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH We are passionate about the future of our world. We recognise that natural ecosystems must be protected, that precious resources must be carefully stewarded and that effective environmental projects support both people and planet to thrive. OTHER GRANTS We recognise many vulnerable communities across the world might require urgent support that falls out of our key programme areas. Where possible, we will respond with an emergency relief grant. Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. By Post Send a cheque made payable to "The Savitri Waney Charitable Trust" to 84 Eccleston Square, London SW1V 1PX By Post Gift Aid If you would like to make a personal donation to the charity and are a UK Tax payer, then we can claim 25p for every £1 you donate. Please complete the Gift Aid Declaration form and send it to us when you make your donation. Thank you For your donation. At the heart of the Savitri Trust is the desire to transform the lives of the poorest and most marginalised. I’m humbled to share this journey with so many like-minded souls. Thank you For subscribing to our newsletter – we look forward to sharing our updates with you. Thank you We’ll be in touch soon!