ABOUT US We are a small family Trust based in the UK and with a sister foundation in India. Our Trustees are driven by compassion to help people and our planet; be it an immediate emotional response or a long-term strategic intervention. OUR APPROACH HOW WE FUND OUR IMPACT OUR HISTORY OUR PEOPLE OUR APPROACH We see our work as more than just giving grants. We aim to raise awareness of an issue and bring together like-minded people to join us in funding long-term solutions. We look for partners who bring expert local knowledge and who are open to working collaboratively. We look to grant in ways that will leverage our funds to achieve most impact. Geographically, we aren’t limited to, but will always ensure a portion of funds are distributed to India, recognising the heritage of our Founding Trustees. PICTURES FROM OUR PARTNERSHIPS (C) Synchronicity Earth, Flourishing Diversity Akhand Jyoti Eye Hospital, Bihar (C) The Whitley Fund for Nature EHA Hospital, Uttar Pradesh, India (C) Sunhil Sippy Cachar Cancer Hospital, Assam. AJEH hospital, Bihar India (C) AJEH ASA, Chhattisgarh, India ASA, Chattisgarh, India. (C) Tulsi Chanrai Foundation, Nigeria. Akhand Jyoti Hospital, Bihar, India. (C) Sophie Gerrard HOW WE FUND We aim to take a flexible, trust-based approach to our work. For us this means getting to know the people and organisations we are supporting. We want to understand their motivation, their approach, what excites them about their work as well as their capacity and challenges they face in getting it done well. Mindful of the resources we have available to respond fully to enquiries, we generally fund by invitation only. We take care to reach out to, and beyond, our existing networks and invite current grantees to nominate potential partners. However, if you feel your work strongly aligns to our mission then please let us know via a brief email to info@savitri.org.uk and we will be back in touch if we’d like to take the discussion forward. OUR IMPACT For over twenty years, our focus has primarily been to support community health and environment projects. Together with support from friends and donors we have donated £14 million in grants. We make sure 100% of your donation goes directly to projects and ensure it delivers the maximum benefit to those in need. Our funding has helped: 357,000 PEOPLE RECEIVE EYE SURGERY 719 DUG WELL PROJECTS 35,104 PEOPLE RECEIVE PALLIATIVE CARE 2,154 FARMING FAMILIES HAVE IMPROVED LIVELIHOODS 5,200 YOUNG PEOPLE IN TRAINING AND EDUCATION Over £14 Million DONATED IN GRANTS AND DIRECTLY SPENT ON PROJECTS Audited Accounts "People have all sorts of approaches to philanthropy, for me it was a phone call with Mother Teresa that inspired a desire to give something back to those who have so little in the world. I think it’s all about what speaks to your soul, which will be different for each of us. My philosophy is very simple and based on compassion. I believe in planning and knowing you are making a difference, but I also believe in spontaneous charity. If something is happening now that’s desperate and you have the money to give – then give it!” Arjun Waney, OBE "People have all sorts of approaches to philanthropy, for me it was a phone call with Mother Teresa that inspired a desire to give something back to those who have so little in the world. I think it’s all about what speaks to your soul, which will be different for each of us. My philosophy is very simple and based on compassion. I believe in planning and knowing you are making a difference, but I also believe in spontaneous charity. If something is happening now that’s desperate and you have the money to give – then give it!” Arjun Waney, OBE OUR HISTORY Arjun Waney founded the Savitri Waney Charitable Trust in 2001 to make a difference to those living in poverty. The Trust is named in memory of his mother, the late Mrs Savitri Waney. Keen to apply his business acumen to his philanthropic endeavors, Arjun led the Trust in investing in cost efficient interventions with transformative results. We funded our first eye care project in 2001, twenty years later it remains a family trust; with program areas and project interests driven by causes and interests close to their hearts. Ultimately health – of individuals, communities, and the environment. Recognising the continued need for our work, the Trust has increasingly reached out to other donors, offering 100% of donations to go to the project of their choice, while at the same time, providing monitoring and evaluation, so as to provide a guarantee of quality and effectiveness. OUR PEOPLE Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. By Post Send a cheque made payable to "The Savitri Waney Charitable Trust" to 84 Eccleston Square, London SW1V 1PX By Post Gift Aid If you would like to make a personal donation to the charity and are a UK Tax payer, then we can claim 25p for every £1 you donate. Please complete the Gift Aid Declaration form and send it to us when you make your donation. Thank you For your donation. Thank you For subscribing to our newsletter – we look forward to sharing our updates with you. Thank you We’ll be in touch soon!