news SHOW CATEGORIES ALL NEWS EVENTS ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY Chemicals: Why should we care and what can we do? Our latest visit to Purnea Hospital In May, our team was able to visit the Savitri Waney Eye Centre in… A visit to our partners at Cachar Cancer Hospital Last week, our colleagues in India took a trip to visit our palliative care… Supporting Pesticide Action Network UK We are increasingly directing funds and developing our learning on the health implications of… #WorldCancerDay This #WorldCancerDay we are sharing a little more about our support for both palliative… Join us and sign the statement on PFAS We have signed a joint statement urging the UK Government to take immediate action… Indigenous Sovereignty and Climate Justice Indigenous Peoples make up 6% of the world’s population, and yet are responsible for… Environmental Funders Network Podcast: Toxics & Pollution You can listen to our Trustee, Devika Waney Mokhtarzadeh, in conversation with Pesticide Action… Savitri's Annual Report 2020 In celebration of Savitri's 20th year in philanthropy, we decided to do something a… Savitri & The Gaia Foundation: The Importance of Seed Sovereignty The production and preservation of organic, local and agroecological seed is needed now more… New Partnership with Beaver Trust This #WorldWildlifeDay we announced our new partnership with Beaver Trust, an exciting addition to Savitri’s… Happy #InternationalWomensDay Women are at the heart of so many of our projects. From the palliative… Inauguration of Savitri's new Eye Hospital in Purnea, Bihar It is with immense joy we announce that on the occasion of World Sight… Savitri's Founder wins ‘Philanthropist of the year’ Savitri’s Founder, Mr Arjun Waney OBE, was recognised as ‘Philanthropist of the Year’ at… A toast to Earth Day To mark the celebration of Earth Day, our friends at Coya were inspired to… MIHARI: A civil society movement to safeguard marine resources For the third consecutive year, Savitri has committed to sponsor a Whitley Fund for… Congratulations Arjun Waney - recognised in 2018 Queen's Birthday Honours We are pleased to announce our founder Arjun Waney has been awarded an OBE… Winning Silver at the Charity Film Awards Over 65,000 members of the public voted and help get us shortlisted for the Charity Film… Conserving Rwanda's emblematic crowned crane We are pleased to announce that for the second year, Savitri have committed to… Update from the Andes A few months after winning her Savitri sponsored Whitley Award, we caught up with Ximena to… Why care for people who are dying? Savitri's Director, Maggie Gardner, reflects on her recent visit to Uttar Pradesh, meeting families… Eye Ball celebrations for World Sight Day In celebration of World Sight Day on 12 October 2017, we partnered with Coya Mayfair… A new partnership with Whitley & the Andean Bears We are keen to increase our support for environmental work beyond India and this… Building an eye hospital in Purnea, Bihar The Waney family remain passionate about delivering our vision of a cataract free Bihar… Film Making with RAW LDN Should we invest in this? Wouldn't it be easier to just film it ourselves?… The Arts Club charity partnership In October, Savitri had the pleasure of being partnered with The Arts Club to raise… Small Change for Big Change – what a difference £1 makes in Nigeria Raphael Duntoye, Chef-Patron of London restuarant La Petite Maison is passionate about food, he… Volunteering 6 months at AJEH Pauline von Galen contacted us in the summer of 2012 with the aim of… Running for Sight By now, you will be very familiar with these five faces. The Gobi Boys… The Arjun Waney Eye Centre Inauguration The Savitri Waney Charitable Foundation is delighted to partner with the LV Prasad Eye… Putting the Luxury into Fundraising It’s always fantastic when people reach out to Savitri and chose to support our… Project WHY? In our recent visit to India, we got the opportunity to visit an inspiration… Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. By Post Send a cheque made payable to "The Savitri Waney Charitable Trust" to 84 Eccleston Square, London SW1V 1PX By Post Gift Aid If you would like to make a personal donation to the charity and are a UK Tax payer, then we can claim 25p for every £1 you donate. Please complete the Gift Aid Declaration form and send it to us when you make your donation. Thank you For your donation. Thank you For subscribing to our newsletter – we look forward to sharing our updates with you. Thank you We’ll be in touch soon!