NEWS Thursday 14th July Putting the Luxury into Fundraising It’s always fantastic when people reach out to Savitri and chose to support our work and we wanted to take this opportunity to thank Niki Richards and her group of ambitious and inspiring students from Regent’s University, London who generously decided to do just that. They are part of The Regents University Luxury Society (RLS), an international network of young professionals and post graduate students united by their shared interest in the luxury industry. The society aims to bring students and professionals together to provide industry knowledge, networking opportunities and career planning. President of RLS, Anne de la Mothe Karoubi shares her thoughts on the importance of giving back whilst working in an industry surrounded by so much wealth: “Savitri was a logical choice for us, since it supports a number of different healthcare and community development projects throughout India and Nigeria. We were so happy to find a charity that is focused on engaging and educating young girls. Also, Savitri is closely linked to many successful luxury restaurants in London; it was a logical step to support an organization that is closely linked to ventures within our community.” The girls decided to host an informal panel discussion that focused on important trends within the industry. Panelists included Ian Hardy of LVMH, Lindsay Davis of Quintessentially, Robin Colgan of Land Rover and Ruth Harrison of Thought Works. Funds raised from ticket sales allowed 100% of RLS’s generous donation to go towards supporting girls from Bihar who are studying to be optometrists at Akhand Jyoti Eye Hospital. SIMILAR NEWS Running for Sight By now, you will be very familiar with these five faces. The Gobi Boys… The Arjun Waney Eye Centre Inauguration The Savitri Waney Charitable Foundation is delighted to partner with the LV Prasad Eye… Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. By Post Send a cheque made payable to "The Savitri Waney Charitable Trust" to 84 Eccleston Square, London SW1V 1PX By Post Gift Aid If you would like to make a personal donation to the charity and are a UK Tax payer, then we can claim 25p for every £1 you donate. Please complete the Gift Aid Declaration form and send it to us when you make your donation. Thank you For your donation. Thank you For subscribing to our newsletter – we look forward to sharing our updates with you. Thank you We’ll be in touch soon!