Projects ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH We are passionate about the future of our world and know that the health of our planet directly impacts the health of every single one of us. We recognise that natural ecosystems must be protected, that precious resources must be carefully stewarded and that effective environmental projects support both people and planet to thrive. To nurture our own health, we must protect our natural ecosystems and give them the space to heal and restore. We are listening and learning from experts; indigenous and traditional wisdom alongside scientists, academics and the communities at the heart of these projects to guide us in our funding. CHANGEMAKERS BIOCULTURAL DIVERISTY AGROECOLOGY CHEMICALS The responsibility of maintaining a healthy planet does not lie with any specific group, and the work we fund is as much about encouraging individual action as it is about influencing wider system changes. We value the importance of diverse voices, approaches and expertise, in particular the next generation. We donate unrestricted microgrants given with love and in trust, to be used at the discretion of the recipient where they feel it is needed most for them to carry out their work in the field of environmental health. Indigenous Peoples make up 6% of the world’s population, and yet are responsible for stewarding 80% of its remaining biodiversity (United Nations). We recognise the importance of listening to, learning from and protecting their traditions as part of the movement for restoring a healthy planet for all. We fund in collaboration with partners who have established relationships with local communities at the forefront of marginalisation and environmental degradation in India and South America. Our goal is to support projects that restore healthy soils and food and farming systems through regenerative agriculture and food production. In the UK this work includes projects to support soil health, seed sovereignty and collaborative alliances that champion social and environmental justice in relation to food and farming. In India, we have historically worked with farming communities to construct wells, diversify crops and improve livelihoods. We are developing this programme of work to include projects that support and deliver training on seed saving and organic farming techniques. We share a vision for the food we eat, the air we breathe and the products we use be free from harmful and hazardous chemicals. Our grants seek to strengthen UK and international law and policy to improve the regulation of harmful synthetic chemicals as well as creating awareness on how to reduce our exposure to these substances to prevent long term disease and health issues. Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. By Post Send a cheque made payable to "The Savitri Waney Charitable Trust" to 84 Eccleston Square, London SW1V 1PX By Post Gift Aid If you would like to make a personal donation to the charity and are a UK Tax payer, then we can claim 25p for every £1 you donate. Please complete the Gift Aid Declaration form and send it to us when you make your donation. Thank you For your donation. Thank you For subscribing to our newsletter – we look forward to sharing our updates with you. Thank you We’ll be in touch soon!