OUR TEAM Our Board is made up of Trustees responsible for making sure the Trust is well run and fulfilling its mission. The Trustees delegate day-to-day management to our Trust Director, supported by our Grants Manager and Finance Officer from our London office. TRUSTEES STAFF VIEW BELOW IN LOVING MEMORY DEVIKA WANEY MOKHTARZADEH It is with heavy hearts that we announce the passing of our Chair of Trustees, Devika Waney Mokhtarzadeh. Devika was a driving force behind the Savitri Trust since its inception, working alongside her father, Arjun Waney OBE, to shape and guide our mission. She passionately spearheaded impactful community health projects across rural India ranging from maternal health, child malnutrition, curable blindness, palliative care, and improving livelihoods. In recent years, Devika’s deep love for the natural world overflowed into our programmes and began to shape our work in new and meaningful ways. She championed projects that bridged the health of both people and the planet, focusing on agroecology, biocultural diversity, youth activists and the fight against chemical pollution. She was truly excited by the possibility of a more just and equitable world; the golden promise that we are, in our tiny part, working towards. She believed in funding in community; working together with others to tackle complex global issues, and she was not afraid to challenge the traditional approach to philanthropy. Always pushing herself and those around her to think more deeply and act boldly. A constant presence at the heart of the Savitri Trust since our formation, Devika was involved in all aspects of our work. She led with a generous heart and a curious mind. She brought fun and joy to our small team here in the UK and India, encouraging us to approach our work with the same enthusiasm and love. Beyond that - she was a true friend, mentor and inspiration to many, and her honesty, compassion and warmth will be greatly missed. She once said, "Hope, love of beauty, and the perfection of the natural world are the drivers for me. We all have different reasons, but hope is the positive outcome. What more can we claim than that?" Our thoughts are with her family and friends and all who loved her. Together we will find ways to carry her hope, activism and passion for the people and the places she cared about, through the work of the Savitri Trust moving forward. October 2024 TRUSTEE BOARD ARJUN WANEY OBE Founder of Beebas Creations, a publicly traded company on the NYSE, and Argent Fund Management Limited, Arjun has had an extensive and prolific career as a successful businessman, entrepreneur and restaurateur with Zuma, Roka, La Petite Maison and Coya achieving worldwide success. He is the co-owner of The Arts Club and a dedicated philanthropist. In 2018 Arjun was recognised in the Queens Birthday Honours and awarded an OBE for his services to hospitality and philanthropy. Arjun applies his business acumen to his charitable endeavors; twinning his two passions of restaurants and philanthropy. He founded the Savitri Trust in 2001 and remains very much at the heart of the Savitri Trust and its’ projects. AZAD SHIVDASANI Azad lives in London and is chairman of the INLAKS Group. He is also a trustee of The Inlaks Shivdasani Foundation, a charity founded by his family which offers scholarships to students from India to continue their higher education at leading institutions overseas. DEVIKA WANEY MOKHTARZADEH Devika lives in London where she devotes her time to the Savitri Trust. As a founding Trustee, she has been actively involved in developing the strategic direction of the Trust for the past 18 years, funding projects, mainly in India, to support Education, Maternal and Child health, Nutrition, Palliative Care and Eye Care. Her true passion, however, lies in the Environment, supporting projects that protect both people and the planet and include; Client Earth, Canopy Planet, Synchronicity Earth, The Whitley Fund for Nature and Gaia Foundation to name a few. She is the creative mind behind the Trust's hugely enjoyable and successful fundraising events and is also a director of The Arts Club in London. EDWARD BOND Edward joined the board of trustees in 2004. He is a consultant solicitor with the London based firm Keystone Law and also operates his own legal practice, Edward Bond Law. His expertise is in employment law and company/commercial law. Edward took a keen interest in the charity and has since helped immensely with advice and support. GULU WANEY Gulu lives and works in Dubai where he manages the family’s industrial enterprises in the Middle East. He is also a trustee of Mission for Vision Trust in Mumbai to provide eye-care for the needy in West and South India. JAI WANEY Jai is the president, CEO and founder of Tillsonburg, a wholesaler to some of the largest fashion retailers in the U.S. He lives in Hong Kong with his wife and family and is active in several local charities. JUDY WANEY Judy is Arjun’s partner, sounding board and inspiration. She is also a keen supporter of Greenpeace, The Soil Association and Amnesty International. RINA BIJUR Rina is a Managing Director in London with Bank J Safra Sarasin. She has several years of experience in managing financial portfolios. Her personal ‎background has given her a special interest in helping reduce sightlessness in India. She has joined the Savitri board to add value through her skills and experience. STAFF MEMBERS EMILY KERR-MUIR Emily joined the Savitri team in 2016 as Grants Manager and transitioned to the role of Director in 2019. In her leadership position, she has worked closely with the family and Trustees to shape their philanthropic strategy, with a growing focus on supporting environmental causes. She has played a key role in establishing funding partnerships across several critical, yet underfunded, sectors. Her prior experience spans youth work, campaigning, fundraising, and international development. SIOBHAN MCCARTHY-MORTON Siobhan is Grants Manager at the Savitri Trust, helping to manage our grants programme. She has worked in a variety of roles within the charity sector, including formerly as CEO at a small grant-making charity. Siobhan is Vice Chair at Women’s Aid in Luton and holds a Master’s in Philanthropy, Grantmaking and Social Investment from Bayes Business School (formerly Cass). Siobhan enjoys running, travelling, and spending time with her two young sons. Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. By Post Send a cheque made payable to "The Savitri Waney Charitable Trust" to 84 Eccleston Square, London SW1V 1PX By Post Gift Aid If you would like to make a personal donation to the charity and are a UK Tax payer, then we can claim 25p for every £1 you donate. Please complete the Gift Aid Declaration form and send it to us when you make your donation. Thank you For your donation. As with Arjun’s other projects, what started as a small ripple has now grown into a tsunami of love and care. I consider myself privileged to be in a small way part of this great humanitarian cause. Restoring sight to so many has restored in me the vision of what is actually important in life. Thank you For subscribing to our newsletter – we look forward to sharing our updates with you. Thank you We’ll be in touch soon!