PROGRAMME AREAS For twenty years our focus has primarily been to fund community health and environment projects. Together with support from friends and donors we have donated £9 million in grants. We look for partners who are experts in their field and who are open to working collaboratively so we can leverage our funding to make the most impact. Geographically, we are not limited to, but will always ensure a portion of funds are distributed to India, recognising the heritage of our Founding Trustees. COMMUNITY HEALTH ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH OTHER GRANTS OUR CURRENT PROGRAMME AREAS COMMUNITY HEALTH Our work in Community Health began in India listening to stories of people whose lives were blighted by cataract blindness and others powerless to access the medical care and support needed at the end of their lives. These stories inspired our giving and ever since we have focussed on partnering with organisations that are working to improve the health and wellbeing of communities across rural India. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH We are passionate about the future of our world and know that the health of our planet directly impacts the health of every single one of us. We recognise that natural ecosystems must be protected, that precious resources must be carefully stewarded and that effective environmental projects support both people and planet to thrive. Maintaining a healthy planet is our collective responsibility and the work we fund is as much about supporting direct community projects as it is about influencing wider system changes. OTHER GRANTS In addition to our core focus areas, we recognise many vulnerable communities all over the world might require urgent support that falls out of our key programme areas. We believe in helping where we can by offering one-off grants. These are made on a discretionary basis and generally take the form of an unrestricted donation in response to a national or international emergency. Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Via Just Giving Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. Donate Online Make a one off or regular donation of your choice. By Post Send a cheque made payable to "The Savitri Waney Charitable Trust" to 84 Eccleston Square, London SW1V 1PX By Post Gift Aid If you would like to make a personal donation to the charity and are a UK Tax payer, then we can claim 25p for every £1 you donate. Please complete the Gift Aid Declaration form and send it to us when you make your donation. Thank you For your donation. Thank you For subscribing to our newsletter – we look forward to sharing our updates with you. Thank you We’ll be in touch soon!