Applied Before? Information for applicants about re-applying to us; or for those who have been offered a grant, about monitoring or reporting back. Information For Grant-holders Applying again? If you have received a grant from the Foundation previously, you must wait a year following the end of the grant period before applying again. If your application has been refused, we also ask that you leave a 12-month gap before applying again. Offered a grant? Once you have been offered a grant from us, we will write and tell you what the process is. We ask that you complete and return to us a simple Terms and Conditions form. Once this is received, we will arrange for the grant to be paid into your account via a bank transfer. We ask that you keep us up-to-date on any significant happenings or changes, to either the project we are contributing towards, or the organisation as a whole. It is also useful to be kept up-to-date with any e-newsletters or similar if you produce these. If you are facing difficulties or uncertainties do get in touch. Monitoring and reporting back If the grant offer is for two or more years, we will write to you a few weeks before a further instalment is due, asking for you to complete our monitoring report form. Further instalments are discussed at Trustee meetings, and providing the report is satisfactory, the next instalment will then be made. If the grant offer is for a single year (or at the end of a multiple-year grant) we ask that you provide a final report when the grant is spent. We will contact you, or if you wanted to report sooner, please email Gill to send you a link to our online reporting form. Reports should include a general overview of the organisation and people who have benefitted, information on how the grant has been spent, progress on the stated outcomes, plus your annual accounts. At any point, if there are any significant changes or issues relating to the grant-spend, please email and we will aim to be as helpful as possible. Contact Us Gill Aconley Director gill@allenlane.org.uk General Enquiries Tel: 01904 613223 Email: info@allenlane.org.uk About us The Allen Lane Foundation is a grant-making trust which was established in 1966. The founder was Sir Allen Lane, who set up the publishing company Penguin Books. We award funding for charitable purposes across the UK. Our focus is on funding specific groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination and we currently make grants through seven funding programmes. Who We Fund Asylum seekers & refugees Gypsy, Roma & Traveller communities Offenders & ex-offenders Older people People affected by violence or abuse People with mental health issues Young People