Our Funding WHO WE FUND Information on the funding programmes we run and the people we aim to benefit. HOW TO APPLY Find out how to apply to us and all about the application process. EXCLUSIONS Have a look at programme categories we DO NOT fund and check your eligibility. Our Aims & Criteria Our aims are to fund work within each of our funding programmes which: will make a lasting difference to people’s lives rather than simply alleviating the symptoms or current problems; will make a lasting difference to people’s lives rather than simply alleviating the symptoms or current problems; is aimed at reducing isolation, stigma and discrimination, and; is aimed at reducing isolation, stigma and discrimination, and; encourages or enables groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination to share in the life of the whole community. encourages or enables groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination to share in the life of the whole community. Over a typical year, we make around 130-150 grants, to a total value of between £720,000 and £800,000. The total amount we can offer is upto £15,000. This can be over three years, two years, or a single grant. However, most grants we make are for much less than this amount, with the average grant size being £5,000-£6,000. We aim to help organisations to become sustainable, supporting running and core costs to enable them to have flexibility, security and longevity. We can contribute to project costs or salaries. Six of our funding programmes are focused on funding for adults only. The Young People’s Programme can support people aged approx 12-21 from across a broader range of backgrounds. While recognising (and being willing to support) on-going, tried and tested projects, we are also particularly interested in unusual, imaginative or pioneering projects which have perhaps not yet caught the public imagination. Please also check through the following to make sure you fit our remit: To make sure our grants have an impact, we fund relatively small organisations. If you work across a local area such as a village, estate or town, to be eligible you will need to have income/expenditure of less than £100,000. At the other end of the spectrum, if you work across the whole of the UK you will need to have an income of less than £250,000. We fund registered charities, and also other charitable not-for-profit organisations, such as constituted voluntary groups or some Community Interest Companies (CICs) for example. We only consider applications from CICs towards the costs of projects that are wholly charitable. We would expect that governing boards have a minimum of three unrelated members, and that all have equal control. We do not fund bodies such as schools, colleges, universities, NHS bodies or town/city/county councils. We do not make grants to individuals. We make grants across the United Kingdom. The only exception is that we do not fund work within Greater London. Organisations which have their offices in London are eligible provided the people who benefit from their work are not only in London. There are certain activities/issues that we do not fund – Please see our exclusion list here . Click on the links below to view our programmes: Asylum seekers & refugees Gypsy, Roma & Traveller communities Offenders & ex-offenders Older people People affected by violence or abuse People with mental health issues Young People Contact Us Gill Aconley Director gill@allenlane.org.uk General Enquiries Tel: 01904 613223 Email: info@allenlane.org.uk About us The Allen Lane Foundation is a grant-making trust which was established in 1966. The founder was Sir Allen Lane, who set up the publishing company Penguin Books. We award funding for charitable purposes across the UK. Our focus is on funding specific groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination and we currently make grants through seven funding programmes. Who We Fund Asylum seekers & refugees Gypsy, Roma & Traveller communities Offenders & ex-offenders Older people People affected by violence or abuse People with mental health issues Young People