Applying For Funding We use an online application system that is accessible via an eligibility questionnaire. AIMS & OBJECTIVES Please see our funding criteria and check that your work aligns with our aims. APPLY HERE When you have read our criteria and are ready to apply, click here to access our eligibility questionnaire. EXCLUSIONS Have a look at programme categories we DO NOT fund and check your eligibility. HOW TO APPLY Please check our criteria, and the guidance within the particular funding programme your work fits, before applying. If your answers to the quiz confirm you are eligible to apply, you will be directed to our application form. If you are unable to use this or have problems accessing the forms, or have any queries about making an application you are encouraged to email us for clarification. When we have received your application we will be in touch (usually within two weeks) to either: Ask for any further information Tell you if your application will be put forward to the next stage of assessment and give a timetable for a final decision Tell you that we cannot help Processing an application and making a grant usually takes between two and six months. If further information is needed this will be requested and a visit may be arranged where the application can be discussed in more detail. Our Trustees meet to discuss grant applications three times a year, generally in February, June and October. You can apply anytime – we process applications all through the year, and will come back to you within a couple of weeks with our initial thoughts. Please read through all the sections in this part of the website and make sure you are eligible to apply. Your work will need to meet our aims, and specifically fit one of the seven funding programmes we run. Check carefully that your organisation fits our criteria, and that your work does not come within the list of exclusions. PLEASE NOTE: OUR OCTOBER MEETING IS NOW CLOSED FOR NEW APPLICATIONS. All applications received now, until early December will be considered in the lead up to the following Trustee meeting in February 2026. Please apply as soon as you are ready – don’t leave it to the last minute! Contact Us Gill Aconley Director gill@allenlane.org.uk General Enquiries Tel: 01904 613223 Email: info@allenlane.org.uk About us The Allen Lane Foundation is a grant-making trust which was established in 1966. The founder was Sir Allen Lane, who set up the publishing company Penguin Books. We award funding for charitable purposes across the UK. Our focus is on funding specific groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination and we currently make grants through seven funding programmes. Who We Fund Asylum seekers & refugees Gypsy, Roma & Traveller communities Offenders & ex-offenders Older people People affected by violence or abuse People with mental health issues Young People