Frequently Asked Questions If you can’t find what you’re looking for please contact us here . I am an individual. Can I apply for funding? No. We only make grants to charitable organisations or voluntary groups. Can I apply for work with children or young people? Our Young People funding programme is aimed at supporting children and young people from the ages of around 12-21 from a range of backgrounds. Please see the information here – Young People’s Programme . The other six funding programmes are all adult-focussed and are not aimed at supporting work with children or young people. When should I apply? You can apply anytime. We will come back to you within a couple of weeks with our initial thoughts. PLEASE NOTE: OUR OCTOBER MEETING IS NOW CLOSED FOR NEW APPLICATIONS. All applications received now, until early December will be considered in the lead up to the following Trustee meeting in February 2026. Please apply as soon as you are ready – don’t leave it to the last minute! We process applications all the time and would appreciate it if you are able to apply well before the deadline. What should I do if the work I am applying for relates to groups of people who are not one of the seven beneficiary groups listed? If your work focuses on a specific group of people other than the seven funding programmes we mention, we are unlikely to fund you. If your work does not directly benefit our funding programmes, but you believe your work to be an unpopular cause, both in society generally, and with other funders, please email the Foundation for clarification on whether it may be something we could consider. What should I do if my organisation doesn’t fit within the size criteria? If your organisation is much larger than the size of organisation we would normally fund, we are unlikely to fund you. Please email for clarification if you have doubts, or are unsure. What should I do if my organisation is in London? If your organisation works solely to benefit people within Greater London, then we will not be able to help. If your work benefits people across a much wider area, then it may be something we could consider. Please email for clarification if you are unsure. My organisation helps people abroad. Can I apply for funding? No. We only make grants for work in the UK. We are a general community association. Can I apply for funding? You could apply for funding, but only for work which specifically benefits one of our funding programmes – ie, a project working directly to benefit one of the seven beneficiary groups we focus on. We are a new organisation so don’t have accounts - is that okay? Yes. Just tell us the date you were established, and give a summary of your income and expenditure to date. I have already started on a written application - can I send this in? In January 2019 we moved towards online applications. If you are unable to access this please contact us. If you are unsure please contact us – see our contacts page for details. I need help with the online application form Please contact us (see details on the contacts page) for assistance. If part of the form doesn’t appear to be working, or you are receiving error messages or any other technical problems, please contact Gill on gill@allenlane.org.uk. Once you have begun the application, to resume it at a later date (within 30 days), please click on Save & Resume at the bottom of the page and save the link, or enter your email address to have the link sent to you. Please note that we are unfortunately unable to retrieve any lost links or see any information before you have submitted the form, so please ensure the email address you input is correct. If you return to your form and input further data, you must save again and get a new link sent to you in order to retain the latest information you have entered. I have a problem accessing the Foundation’s information If you have an issue relating to the website and the information available, or accessing help, please contact gill@allenlane.org.uk I have already started an application and see that the guidance has been changed Please contact Gill on gill@allenlane.org.uk for assistance Contact Us Gill Aconley Director gill@allenlane.org.uk General Enquiries Tel: 01904 613223 Email: info@allenlane.org.uk About us The Allen Lane Foundation is a grant-making trust which was established in 1966. The founder was Sir Allen Lane, who set up the publishing company Penguin Books. We award funding for charitable purposes across the UK. Our focus is on funding specific groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination and we currently make grants through seven funding programmes. Who We Fund Asylum seekers & refugees Gypsy, Roma & Traveller communities Offenders & ex-offenders Older people People affected by violence or abuse People with mental health issues Young People