2024/2025 Grants agreed Charities supported in 2025 Over twenty five million pounds donated the Foundation began Fifty eight years of funding charities About The Allen Lane Foundation The Allen Lane Foundation is a grant-making trust which was established in 1966. The founder was Sir Allen Lane, who set up the publishing company Penguin Books. Team The trustees bring a wide range of expertise and experience to the Foundation and include three family members of Sir Allen Lane. History The Allen Lane Foundation is a family trust, established in 1966 by Sir Allen Lane, who founded the publishing company Penguin Books. Lectures The foundation has held a number of lectures over the years from well known and respected figures from within the charity sector. About us Sir Allen Lane’s family are still involved in the running of the trust today – two of his granddaughters are Trustees, plus one of his great-granddaughters. We award funding for charitable purposes across the UK. Our focus is on funding particular groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination and we currently make grants through seven specific funding programmes. Within those programmes, our overall aims are to: make a lasting difference to people’s lives; reduce isolation, stigma and discrimination; and to encourage or enable groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination to share in the life of the whole community. In addition to its general grant-making, the Foundation has, in the past, funded some particular programmes of work including support for penal reform and women’s projects in the Republic of Ireland. It has also made some larger-scale grants for specific work on a national scale. Previously located in London and then Bracknell, for the past 23 years, the Foundation’s offices have been in York. 2016 was the Foundation’s 50th anniversary year and a Lecture was given by Dame Anne Owers in celebration. Contact Us Gill Aconley Director gill@allenlane.org.uk General Enquiries Tel: 01904 613223 Email: info@allenlane.org.uk About us The Allen Lane Foundation is a grant-making trust which was established in 1966. The founder was Sir Allen Lane, who set up the publishing company Penguin Books. We award funding for charitable purposes across the UK. Our focus is on funding specific groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination and we currently make grants through seven funding programmes. Who We Fund Asylum seekers & refugees Gypsy, Roma & Traveller communities Offenders & ex-offenders Older people People affected by violence or abuse People with mental health issues Young People