Welcome to The Allen Lane Foundation We award funding for charitable purposes across the UK. Our focus is on funding specific groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination and we currently make grants through seven funding programmes. Learn more Welcome to The Allen Lane Foundation We award funding for charitable purposes across the UK. Our focus is on funding specific groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination and we currently make grants through seven funding programmes. OUR FUNDING We make grants towards particular beneficiary groups. HOW TO APPLY Find out about our criteria and the application process. CASE STUDIES View a selection of the grants we have made over the years. The Allen Lane Foundation is a family trust, established in 1966 by Sir Allen Lane, who founded the publishing company Penguin Books. The trustees bring a wide range of expertise and experience to the Foundation and include three family members of Sir Allen Lane. The foundation has held a number of lectures over the years from well known and respected figures from within the charity sector. The Foundation produces an Annual Report and Accounts and also works with 360Giving to publish grants information. 2024/2025 Grants agreed Charities supported in 2025 Donated since the Foundation began Funding charities Working towards a brighter future How we focus our funding. Within our programmes, our overall aims are to: make a lasting difference to people’s lives; reduce isolation, stigma and discrimination; and to encourage or enable marginalised groups to share in the life of the whole community. OUR SEVEN FUNDING PROGRAMMES Our focus is on funding specific groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination. We fund charities and charitable organisations – NOT individuals. We focus on smaller charities across the UK – NOT in London. We fund work to benefit refugees, asylum seekers and refused asylum seekers, including those held in detention. Our focus is on women only. We focus funding on work that supports people who are, or have in the past been, affected by violence or abuse. We are a keen supporter of penal reform, and fund groups working with offenders in prisons and out in the community. This programme has a focus on women. We support groups from within the Gypsy, Roma & Traveller communities, and organisations that work to benefit them. Our funding is focused on projects that benefit isolated elderly people (generally aged 70+) including those with dementia. We fund mental health charities & projects that benefit people with moderate or severe mental health issues. We support young people aged 12-21 who are persistently absent from school; school leavers with no qualifications; and young people in/leaving care. Contact Us Gill Aconley Director gill@allenlane.org.uk General Enquiries Tel: 01904 613223 Email: info@allenlane.org.uk About us The Allen Lane Foundation is a grant-making trust which was established in 1966. The founder was Sir Allen Lane, who set up the publishing company Penguin Books. We award funding for charitable purposes across the UK. Our focus is on funding specific groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination and we currently make grants through seven funding programmes. Who We Fund Asylum seekers & refugees Gypsy, Roma & Traveller communities Offenders & ex-offenders Older people People affected by violence or abuse People with mental health issues Young People