Young People’s Programme The Foundation is keen to support young people who are facing difficult challenges and barriers to accessing support and opportunities. Funding work to benefit children and young people aged 12-21 who are vulnerable, socially excluded or marginalised. Recent updates to the guidance in this programme, are that the Foundation aims to focus on those children who are considered persistently absent from school, those leaving school with no qualifications, and children and young people in/leaving care. We aim to support work to help young people who are experiencing or may have already suffered significant issues within their lives and who may ‘fall through the cracks’ without targetted support. The priority is on those aged 12-21 who are vulnerable, socially excluded or marginalised; whose experiences can be hidden or less well known; and whose voices are often erased or ignored. This may, for example, include pro-active youth clubs, activities for disaffected young people, or employment opportunities or experience which help young people to find structure. Also organisations that focus their work on: young people within the criminal justice system or those at risk of offending; looked after children or care leavers; those with significant mental health concerns or complex needs; young people who have been traumatised by challenging family backgrounds, neglect, violence or abuse; those that have fallen through the gaps in care and/or education; those already affected by, or vulnerable to, exploitation; or whose experiences could seriously impact their transition into adulthood. We do not aim to target funding at work that takes place in schools. This is not an exhaustive list and the Foundation will be happy to advise or discuss potential applications. The Foundation is not looking to fund general youth provision due to the limitation of available resource, but will consider both core or project funding of organisations whose work aligns with the aim of the programme. Grants made within this programme include the funding of a crisis drop-in for young people who have been sexually abused in Dundee; a salary contribution for a mental health workers to run young people’s groups in Gateshead; a Rise and Thrive life and Employability Skills workshops for young female care leavers in the South West; a drama and arts project aimed at young people with a history of offending in Jaywick, Essex. Please see below a selection of recent grants made. Contact Us Gill Aconley Director gill@allenlane.org.uk General Enquiries Tel: 01904 613223 Email: info@allenlane.org.uk About us The Allen Lane Foundation is a grant-making trust which was established in 1966. The founder was Sir Allen Lane, who set up the publishing company Penguin Books. We award funding for charitable purposes across the UK. Our focus is on funding specific groups that experience marginalisation and/or discrimination and we currently make grants through seven funding programmes. Who We Fund Asylum seekers & refugees Gypsy, Roma & Traveller communities Offenders & ex-offenders Older people People affected by violence or abuse People with mental health issues Young People