FAQs Site Map Home History About Us Grant Policy Apply Accounts Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Q: I am an individual, can I apply? A: No, applications are only considered from registered charities. Q: My organisation is a company limited by guarantee. Am I eligible for a grant? A: Only if you are also a registered charity. Q: Will the Trust fund core costs? A: The Trustees fund projects, which must be budgeted, but we are willing to consider core funding for organisations whose work we know. Q: In what form should I submit my application? A: Please complete the online application form Q: What else do I need to submit? A: In addition to the completed application form you will need to attach: a copy of your latest signed and audited accounts; your budget for the financial year in which the project falls, separating income and expenditure which relates to the project you want a grant for; your budget for the project; and details about other funding received or pending for the project. a copy of your latest signed and audited accounts; your budget for the financial year in which the project falls, separating income and expenditure which relates to the project you want a grant for; your budget for the project; and details about other funding received or pending for the project. Q: Can I post my application form? A: We prefer applications to be sent by email unless this is impossible. Q: What is the value of your grants? A: Grants vary from single payments of between £1,000 and £5,000 or, for core funding, larger grants which may be spread over one to three years. We are seeking to make more substantial larger grants. Q: Can an organisation have more than one grant at a time? A: Only one grant is generally allowed at any one time. Q: We will have to close next month if we cannot get any more money. Can you help? A: No. Q: How long do you give grants for? A: Grants are generally awarded for one year but larger grants may be spread over as much as three years. Q: If my application has been turned down when should I apply again? A: You will be advised if your application has not met the criteria. If it has, but is not within the current funding priorities, you may apply again in 12 to 18 months. Registered Charity No. 274862 Home About Us Grant Policy Grant Standard Conditions Apply Accounts Contact Us Sitemap FAQs Legal Notice