About Us About us Our story Our people Our values Finance and investments Publications Strategy and policies Jobs Apply for funding Apply for funding Who can apply Am I eligible What we are looking to fund What we do not fund How to apply Funding FAQs UK Overseas Territories Fund Survey feedback Grants we've made Grants we've made Case studies Grants list Annual funding data Grants data published to 360Giving For grantholders For grantholders Holding a grant Room hire Apply for funding A person (with only their body, arms and hands visible) wearing a mustard coloured jumper typing at a laptop on a brown desk Our overarching aim as an organisation is to advance wellbeing for people, society and the natural world. Our funding guidelines relate to our strategy for 2025 to 2030. You can read our strategy in full by clicking here. The focus of our current strategy is to respond to this age of significant disruption and interconnected global threats. These guidelines outline how we seek to achieve our aim and deliver on our strategy through our grantmaking. Funding Guidelines Download our latest Guidelines Also available in Welsh here In our grantmaking, we want to support charitable organisations that at their core are committed to ensuring the rights of people, society and the natural world for current and future generations. These web pages outline in detail what we mean by this. We have Funding Guidelines in English that can be accessed by clicking here and Funding Guidelines in Welsh that can be accessed by clicking here . The guidelines outline what we are looking to fund and are reviewed on an annual basis. We make updates based on the feedback we receive, in order to ensure clarity for applicants. If you would like to make an application, please use our online portal which can be accessed by clicking here . Before you do so, please review the Funding Guidelines document or our website for further information about the grants we make and how to apply. You can also see a PDF version of our 1st and 2nd Stage Application Forms by clicking here. If you have any additional queries, please feel free to contact a member of the team. NB If you applied to us under our previous funding guidelines and would like a copy of these to refer back to, please reach out to beth@ellerman.org.uk PRE APPLICATION ADVICE We are always happy to offer pre-application advice, and there are a variety of ways you can access this. These options are not mandatory; we are open to applications year round, and you are very welcome to simply apply via our online portal at any point. All the information you need to do so can be found on our website and in our Funding Guidelines document. However, if you are unsure about anything, we have created a range of support pathways. Email For quick questions, you may find it easiest to email. You can reach out to our Grants Officer Bethany Barker beth@ellerman.org.uk and/or our Grants Manager Stephanie Santiano Stephanie@ellerman.org.uk . Please note that this is only for queries and we cannot accept applications via email. All applications must go through our online portal. You can see more detail about this in the ‘How to apply’ section of our website which can be accessed by clicking here . This section also has details about our approach to accessibility. Attend an online Q&A We run monthly online Q&A sessions on the funding guidelines, on the first Monday of every month at 3pm. These include a brief introductory presentation (lasting about 5 minutes) and the rest of the session is set aside for attendees to put questions to the Grants Team. You are welcome to only drop in for part of the session, and also to join on multiple occasions. If you sign up to attend one of these sessions, we recommend that you review our Funding Guidelines document in advance, which can be accessed by clicking here. You can see the full list of Q&A dates and book onto a session by clicking here . Watch our explanatory video We have recorded a video summarising the changes that we have made to the funding guidelines following the launch of our 2025-2030 Strategy. This video also provides an introduction to our funding criteria and the application process. You can click here to watch it. Request a call or draft feedback Finally, if you need more in depth pre-application support, you can request a call with the Grants Team, or ask us to review a draft application. We are able to offer one call/ draft review per application. You can reach out to our Grants Officer Bethany Barker beth@ellerman.org.uk and/or our Grants Manager Stephanie Santiano Stephanie@ellerman.org.uk to request support. Who can apply Am I eligible How to apply This section outlines our application process, including our approach to access, and timelines. What we do not fund You should double check that you are not excluded by reading the list below. You can find further details in the FAQs on our website where indicated. © John Ellerman Foundation Aria House, 23 Craven Street, London WC2N 5NS. Registered Charity Number 263207 Design: Red Stone