About Us About us Our story Our people Our values Finance and investments Publications Strategy and policies Jobs Apply for funding Apply for funding Who can apply Am I eligible What we are looking to fund What we do not fund How to apply Funding FAQs UK Overseas Territories Fund Survey feedback Grants we've made Grants we've made Case studies Grants list Annual funding data Grants data published to 360Giving For grantholders For grantholders Holding a grant Room hire What we are looking to fund A large group of people on a marching on a street holding banners and flags OUR AIM We believe that to advance wellbeing we need to support charitable organisations that at their core are committed to ensuring the rights of people, society and the natural world for current and future generations. Funding Guidelines in English Funding Guidelines in Welsh WHAT WE FUND In designing this strategy, we thought carefully about the context that we are operating in. We believe that we are living in an age of significant disruption and interconnected global threats that are impacting people, society and the natural world and that the solutions to these will elicit results now, but may also require decades and multiple generations before they are fully realised. As a grantmaker with direct experience of funding work through our previous strategies relating to the environment, social causes and the arts, we feel well placed to support charitable work that responds to ONE OR MORE of the following: Tackling the triple planetary crisis by mitigating and adapting to climate impacts, reducing pollution and protecting and restoring nature. Building greater trust and connection, reducing polarisation within society and increasing the levels of participation and influence in the political process (which is sometimes referred to as political equality). Promoting the development and adoption of economic models and systems that support people and planet and reduce wealth inequalities. Advancing equity and justice for marginalised communities impacted by the issues above. We’re looking to fund organisations that can demonstrate that intrinsic to their approach they are: 1. Changemaking organisations. We want to fund organisations that: Understand their role within existing and/or new systems* and the role systems have on people, society and the natural world. Have a clear strategy for how and why they intend to make change in existing and/or new systems, e.g. by challenging long-held orthodoxies and business as usual approaches, including helping us to see the world differently, or pursuing alternative and better approaches for people, society and the natural world, or having evidence-led approaches to policy, advocacy and campaigning work. Are rooted in practical experience alongside their changemaking work. Are engaging with unpopular or difficult causes. AND 2. Committed to advancing justice* through the active involvement of individuals and communities with personal or direct experience of the issues. We believe a justice led approach helps to secure equity, access and rights, especially for those experiencing exclusion and the most adverse impacts of this age of significant disruption and interconnected global threats. We want to support work that seeks to advance justice by doing one or more of the following: Building power and movements within communities by supporting activism work and community organising. Advocating for change on the ‘inside track’, e.g. by improving policy, legislation and/or regulatory frameworks within political, public and corporate sectors. Addressing the root causes of injustice, as well as the symptoms. Developing alternative ideas and approaches that build new narratives and public understanding of an issue. *For more details about what we mean by ‘justice’ and ‘systems’, please see the FAQs section by clicking here. WHAT OUR GRANTS CAN BE USED FOR We offer multi-year funding for core costs and accept applications for a maximum of £180k over up to five years. We provide funding of up to a maximum of £60k per year (e.g. an organisation applying for £180k would need to request this funding over a minimum of three years). We have a small Grants Team, and take a light touch approach to grants management, which means we don’t have the capacity to be an organisation’s main funder. Therefore, we ask that applicants consider the amount they are requesting per year in proportion with their annual income. Core funding is funding which goes towards the core costs of delivering an organisation’s work. These costs could include: staff salaries, training and expenses day-to-day running costs and operations monitoring and evaluation, including research communications and digital innovation. If most or all of the activity that your organisation undertakes fits with our funding criteria, and you are a UK-registered charity, then you can apply for unrestricted core funding. However, if there are aspects of your work that are not relevant, we ask that you specify where the funds would be directed to within your organisation. It is not our preference to provide project funding, as we do not have much experience of this. Organisations applying for project grants must still demonstrate overall alignment with our funding criteria. If you think a project grant would be best, please do discuss with us first. To get an idea of the kind of grants we have awarded in the past, take a look at the grants list on our website or on 360Giving which show the grant duration, the amount awarded and a short summary of what the grant was for. © John Ellerman Foundation Aria House, 23 Craven Street, London WC2N 5NS. Registered Charity Number 263207 Design: Red Stone