About Us About us Our story Our people Our values Finance and investments Publications Strategy and policies Jobs Apply for funding Apply for funding Who can apply Am I eligible What we are looking to fund What we do not fund How to apply Funding FAQs UK Overseas Territories Fund Survey feedback Grants we've made Grants we've made Case studies Grants list Annual funding data Grants data published to 360Giving For grantholders For grantholders Holding a grant Room hire Am I eligible Heart n Soul © A person with brown hair and glasses in a grey hoodie smiles as she puts her headphones on in what looks like a classroom with white boards and a flip chart visible in the background Before you apply, please make sure you are eligible for a grant. You can do this by using the eligibility quiz shared below. Please be aware that on some devices, the answers to the questions in the eligibility quiz may only appear below each question after it has been selected. You can refer to our Am I Eligible alternate document by clicking here if you would like to see a list of all questions and answers in a PDF instead. We receive many more applications than we can support, so we have to apply our criteria strictly. 1. Do you represent: UK registered charities and organisations with exempt charity status are eligible. If you are a campaigning organisation that has strong and clear reasons for not being a UK-registered charity, including not being able to register, then you can apply to us as a company limited by guarantee with an asset lock. You must meet all of our other funding criteria. For more detail, see our FAQs by clicking here . We do not make grants to individuals. We only fund UK registered charities or organisations with an exempt charitable status. We only support work overseas if it is in the UK Overseas Territories and is delivering environmental work related to the triple planetary threat. For more detail, see our FAQs by clicking here . We do not usually fund universities, and not for their core work. Exceptionally, we may consider an application from a specialist unit if you are a centre of excellence and a leader in your field. You must have an operating budget of between £100k and £10m, and being undertaking work that it is distinctive, involves partnerships with charities or similar, has a budget that includes no contribution to central overheads, and strongly meets our funding criteria. We do not accept applications from hospitals, hospices or schools. We accept applications from fiscally hosted organisations which meet all our other funding criteria. For more detail, see our FAQs by clicking here. 2. What is your organisation's annual income? We will only consider applications from organisations with an annual income above £100,000. We only consider applications from organisation with an annual income above £100,000. We will consider applications from organisations with an annual income between £100,000 and £10 million. We only consider applications from organisations with an income below £10 million. The only exception to this is for environmental organisations acting as intermediaries for work happening in the UK Overseas Territories. 3. What type of funding are you requesting? We do not fund capital developments, building refurbishment or the purchase of individual items of equipment. Our preference is to provide core funding. This can include (but is not limited to) staff salaries, training and expenses, day-to-day running costs and operations, monitoring and evaluation, including research, communications and digital innovation. If most or all of the activity that your organisation undertakes fits with our funding criteria, and you are a UK-registered charity, then you can apply for unrestricted core funding. However, if there are aspects of your work that are not relevant, we ask that you specify where the funds would be directed to within your organisation. Our preference is to provide core funding. If you think a project grant would be best, you can apply for that instead, but bear in mind that we do have less experience in distributing and managing project grants. Organisations applying for project grants must still demonstrate overall alignment with our funding criteria. 4. What is the geographical focus of your work you are asking us to fund? We fund organisations from any part of the UK whose work has impact across the UK. We accept applications from organisations that have national significance within one or across multiple countries within the UK. If you are a local organisation making a difference locally only, without having any influence nationally or at a UK level, then your application will not be successful. We only support work overseas if it is in the UK Overseas Territories and is delivering environmental work related to the triple planetary threat. For more detail, see our FAQs by clicking here. 5. Does the work you are requesting funding for fall within any of the following activities which are excluded from our funding? We do not accept general or round-robin appeals. We do not support individuals, including student grants or bursaries. We do not fund capital developments, building works or refurbishment, or individual items of equipment. We do not fund work that promotes religion or places of worship. We do not fund arts organisations and projects whose main focus is supporting and developing individuals. Please see our Arts category guidelines for more details on our arts programme. We do not generally fund learning and participation activities, but may consider some element of this as part of a wider application that is otherwise strongly aligned with our funding priorities. We do not fund leisure, individual holiday schemes or respite breaks. We do not fund organisations when sport is their core activity. We do not fund any projects where boxing is used as a tool of engagement or as an activity. We do not fund education work including initiatives linked to the curriculum, or arts and environmental education work. We do not fund work in the areas of animal welfare, captive breeding and/or animal rescue as the main purpose of the work. We do not fund medical research or treatment, including drug and alcohol rehabilitation services. We do not fund work in prisons that should receive statutory funding and does not pursue wider systems change. We do not fund one-off events such as conferences, trips, seminars, master classes, summer schools, single commissions, productions or festivals. We will fund campaigns, but they must meet our funding criteria and be part of a clear long-term strategy for the organisation. We do not fund campaigns if they are stand alone and do not tie in strongly with the organisation’s wider work. We do not allow onward distribution of our funds unless we have explicitly agreed to join a funder collaboration or pooled fund where this will happen. If you would like to invite us to join a pooled fund, we recommend that you contact us before applying for a discussion about this. We do not fund work that seeks to remove the rights of specific groups of people. Building greater trust and connection and reducing polarisation within society are key priorities within our strategy. The list above covers our common exclusions, but please do check the Funding Guidelines to be sure your application will be eligible 6. Is the work that you would like us to fund within one of the following areas? This is one of the priority areas in our funding strategy and is therefore eligible. This is one of the priority areas in our funding strategy and is therefore eligible. This is one of the priority areas in our new funding strategy and is therefore eligible. This is one of the priority areas in our funding strategy and is therefore eligible. We welcome applications that focus on multiple areas, but this is not a requirement. Your application is only required to address one of the above areas as a minimum. If your work does not address at least one of the areas above, your application will not be successful. Congratulations! You are eligible to apply for grant support from the John Ellerman Foundation. Please read the How to apply section for further information on how to submit an application. We are sorry You do not seem to be eligible to apply for grant support from the John Ellerman Foundation. Please read the What We Fund section for further information on our criteria. If you remain unsure about whether your organisation is eligible and wish to seek further guidance about an application, please contact our Grants Officer, Beth on beth@ellerman.org.uk How to apply This section outlines our application process, including our approach to access, and timelines. Funding FAQs Here are the answers to some of the most common queries. Case studies As a grantmaker we achieve our impact through funding others. Here are some examples of the grants we make, and why. Grants list Take a look at the grants we've made since 2013. © John Ellerman Foundation Aria House, 23 Craven Street, London WC2N 5NS. Registered Charity Number 263207 Design: Red Stone