Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Legal Aid Agency cyber security incident A dedicated space with the latest updates, contingency measures and processes following a cyber attack on the Legal Aid Agency’s online digital services. Applies to England and Wales To ensure that legal aid providers have the latest position with respect to legal aid applications and billing contingencies, and that affected parties can access the latest developments on the incident, we have created a dedicated space with contingencies and useful resources. If you are a legal aid provider and have any concerns about any of the contingencies in place, and which are not answered on this page, please contact your LAA Contract Manager for queries about your specific circumstances. For other incident related queries not covered on this page, you can contact our Customer Services Team on 0300 200 20 20. Opening hours are 9am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. If you are, or have been, a recipient of legal aid and are concerned that you might be affected by this incident and cannot find the information you need on this page, please contact our Customer Services Team on 0300 200 20 20. Opening hours are 9am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. Alternatively, email the Chief Executive’s Correspondence and Parliamentary Engagement Team at corporatecorrespondenceteam@justice.gov.uk . Non-incident related queries, including case specific queries, should continue to be directed to contactcivil@justice.gov.uk . Data Exfiltration Injunction In May, the court granted an application made by the Lord Chancellor preventing the disclosure, publication or communications of information of data obtained from the LAA IT systems. On 4 June, a further injunction has been granted by the court. This continues the prohibition on the criminals responsible for the data breach publishing the information and also prevents third parties who know about the injunction from doing so (as to do so would undermine the injunction and amount to contempt of court). Restoration Of Crime Systems Access to Crime Apply and Submit a Crime Form has now been restored. Please note that the use of Crime Apply is mandatory for all Criminal Legal Aid applications from 1 October. Any application sent in by the contingency process (by e-mail) on or after this date will be rejected. If you are unable to access Sign in to Legal Aid Services, please contact the Online Support Team (0300 200 2020) or inform your Contract Manager. The use of Submit a Crime Form is mandatory for all CRM4 and CRM5 applications from 22 September. Any applications sent in by the contingency process (by e-mail) on or after this date will be rejected. If you are unable to access Sign in to Legal Aid Services, please contact the Online Support Team (0300 200 2020) or inform your Contract Manager. The End of Enhanced Business Continuity Measures for Crime Applications The LAA’s enhanced Business Continuity measures for Crime applications have ended on 30 September 2025. For Crime, this marks the final transition back to our business-as-usual processes. As of 00:00, 1 October 2025: Delegated authority for representation order applications in all case types have ended. You will no longer have authority to grant representation in any case type under delegated powers, please take note of this when instructed from 00:00, 1 October 2025 onwards. If you have any questions on a specific circumstance that is not clear, please refer to the guidance on submitting criminal legal aid applications in the first instance Proceeding once instructed under delegated authority after this date from 00:00, 1 October 2025 will be ultra vires and would entitle the LAA to refuse payment of any associated fees. We understand that this return to previous rules will increase your time spent submitting applications in the first instance, but we are ready to support you through this process and answer any questions you may have Monthly Claim Submissions This section covers Crime Lower, Legal Help, Controlled Legal Representation (CLR) and Mediation monthly submissions. Please download and complete the following form, here Legal Aid Agency Contingency Monthly Contract Submission ( MS Excel Spreadsheet , 38.1 KB ) , to report your September CWA submission and email it to the email address on the form (by no later than 20 October). If your monthly claim value is £0, please submit a nil return using the form. If you don’t wish to make use of the contingency process, please don’t provide any return. In this instance, late claims will be accepted when submissions are made. You do not need to include any adjustment for Escape Cases that have been submitted for assessment in your monthly CWA submission. Escape Cases can be submitted and will be processed as usual and the LAA will make an adjustment to the monthly payment to account for any additional sums due following assessment. We had previously advised that when CWA is available, submissions should also be submitted via the system, to allow them to be reconciled. As confirmed on 3 October, we are introducing a new interim service to replace the previous CWA system - Submit a Bulk Claim. Further details are below and we will confirm how we will approach the submission of contingency claims in the next 2 weeks. Submit a Bulk Claim - replacement service for CWA We have previously communicated that as part of our continued efforts to restore services following the recent cyber-attack, we are introducing a new interim service to replace the previous CWA system that could not be safely restored. Submit a Bulk Claim enables providers to upload Legal Help, Crime Lower and Mediation monthly submissions. We are aiming to release this service ahead of the October submission deadline of Thursday 20 November. Changes for providers The new service will require you to submit claims either via a revised Bulk Upload Spreadsheet or through updated CSV, XML, and TXT exports. Each claim will need to include a new, single fee code. This change has been required to enable us to deliver the new service at speed. You will need to include the new fee codes in October submission (due to be submitted in November 2025) for them to be accepted by the new system. The CWA monthly submissions contingency will end on Monday 20 October and claims must be made in Submit a Bulk Claim in order to receive future monthly payments. To support you to make this change, we are working with software vendors who are updating their systems to accommodate and enable the new fee codes. Most vendors have confirmed that they are going to auto-generate the codes in the claim exports. Most vendors have also confirmed that they can enable claim exports generated during the contingency period to be re-run with the new codes included, which supports our intention to require all April 25 – Sept 25 submissions to be made in Submit a Bulk Claim. However, we recognise that there may be additional work for you to update claim exports from the contingency period and we are continuing to explore options to minimise this. We will confirm how we will ask you to approach these in the next 2 weeks. We acknowledge that this is a considerable change and we are working as hard as possible to minimise the impact for providers, including working with a group of providers to design the service. However, due to the need to deliver a working service as early as possible, the initial release will only support the submission and pricing of claims. We are developing a full suite of training and guidance and will begin rolling this out as soon as possible. As a first step, we wanted to provide you with key information on the new system to help you prepare for implementation. You can find the following documents on GOV.UK: New fee codes with mapping ( MS Excel Spreadsheet , 173 KB ) Updated bulk upload spreadsheet ( MS Excel Spreadsheet , 10 MB ) Validation overview for providers ( PDF , 143 KB , 3 pages ) FAQ ( PDF , 57.5 KB , 2 pages ) Bulk upload spreadsheet We have identified an issue with the Bulkload spreadsheet that we shared previously – an updated version has been uploaded above; please refer to v1.38 to prepare your submissions. Please refer to the “Help” button on the Bulkload spreadsheet if you have any issues with its completion. We are aiming to publish an updated User Guidance document to support the Spreadsheet, early next week and will be updating gov.uk to replace the pages that previously stored our guidance on using CWA, to now include the necessary guidance to support use of Submit a Bulk Claim The “Help” button includes guidance on how to save the document including creating a save path location; click Go to Help Page button, and scroll down to Select Custom Filepath and enter it in the green box.” You will need to include the new fee codes in October submissions as they are prepared this month. We understand this is a significant change, at short notice, and are committed to working closely with you to support a smooth transition. We are keen to understand more about your monthly submissions, how you usually submit and the impacts of this change on your usual operations, you can help us by sharing your feedback using this link https://www.smartsurvey.co.uk/s/TV8D51/ If you have any questions, feedback, or require further clarification, please contact SubmitABulkClaimQueries@justice.gov.uk Civil billing: Average Payments Scheme Due to the current portal outage caused by criminal activity, the Legal Aid Agency (LAA) is unable to assess Civil Representation claims and payments in the usual way. The LAA is invoking contingency arrangements for those CCMS users that need contingency payments whilst the portal is unavailable. Under these contingency arrangements, CCMS users may opt to receive a temporary average payment for Civil Representation work that would otherwise be due. The first payment offer is for 2 weeks, subsequent payments will be 1 week. The weekly average will be based on previous payments made over a 3-month period. The process to opt in to contingency and accept the payment is entirely voluntary and will run on a weekly basis, giving you flexibility to opt in each week. To opt in, you must let us know by midday each Monday to make that week’s payment run. We are reviewing the scheme at the end of June and will update on any changes to future operation in early July. If you do not wish to opt in, you need take no further action. However, by not opting in, you will be unable to submit claims and will receive no payment. Payments under these contingency arrangements are not final payments. They are not made under a specific case reference and do not replace the need to submit a bill once system access is restored. They should not be posted against individual accounts on any of your own case records. They will require balancing and netting after the fact when system access is available again. For more information, please refer to the Contingency Payment: Providers Guide ( PDF , 442 KB , 15 pages ) . Following systems restoration (or case specific payments being resumed) these payments will be recouped. A staggered recoupment process will begin after 2 weeks. This will allow time for bill submissions and receipts of payments and minimise risks of deficits forming on accounts. If you opt in you must sign a declaration that confirms you are agreeing to the terms of the recoupment and that you will retain records of claims which are due to be submitted and provide these to LAA upon request. You should not opt-in if you do not have sufficient claims to cover the payment. The Opt-In Contingency Declaration 2025 ( MS Excel Spreadsheet , 27 KB ) is available on GOV.UK. An email was sent to providers on Wednesday 28 May, confirming the amount payable for their account. To opt into these contingency arrangements, CCMS users should download and complete the declaration form from LAA’s website and send it to CivilClaimBC@justice.gov.uk providing the Provider/Counsel Account Number and name of the account. The CCMS user’s email should be sent from an official office account so that it can be verified. Consideration should be given as to whether contingency is right for a user’s circumstance. If you believe your claims to be billed significantly exceed this payment and it will cause considerable hardship, please contact your contract manager or for members of the independent Bar, please contact the above email address. They will then explain the escalation process for considering whether a higher (or lower if desired) contingency payment is justified. Crime billing Crime billing: Current processing dates You can check our current processing dates here Crime processing dates - GOV.UK . Please do not chase any outstanding work that is within these oldest dates as this will ensure the team can focus all available resources on getting your work processed more swiftly. Crime billing: Magistrates court claims (CRM7) Please submit non-standard Magistrates’ claims (CRM7s) via paper. Please send your CRM7 and file of papers to: Legal Aid Agency 3rd Floor, B3.20 1 Unity Square Queensbridge Road Nottingham NG2 1AW DX 10035 Nottingham Please note that we are unable to accept CRM7 claims or further information via email. Crime billing: Applications for Prior Authority (CRM4) Prior authority applications (CRM4s) can now be submitted on Submit a Crime Form service, accessed via SiLAS. The “Application for Prior Authority” system requires providers to input a MAAT number on all submissions. For cases where you have used delegated functions, you will not have a MAAT number. To enable you to submit your application electronically, please use the dummy MAAT number 0900900 to move past this field. If you are applying for further funding for the same expert type, please attach a copy of the previously granted CRM4. If you are experiencing technical difficulties and are unable to access SiLAS, please contact your Contract Manager for assistance. A reminder that guidance regarding SiLAS Registration and Sign-in is also available here: SiLAS Registration & Sign-in - FAQs Crime billing: Applications to Extend the Upper Financial Limit (CRM5) Applications to extend the upper financial limit (CRM5s) can now be submitted on SiLAS. The “Application to Extend the Upper Financial Limit” system requires providers to input the reference number of any previously submitted applications on the same matter. For CRM5s submitted during the contingency period, you will not have this reference number. Please enter your client name or 0000000 (7 x zeros) in the box to allow you to compete and submit the electronic form. If you are experiencing technical difficulties and are unable to access SiLAS, please contact your Contract Manager for assistance. A reminder that guidance regarding SiLAS Registration and Sign-in is also available here: SiLAS Registration & Sign-in - FAQs Crime billing: Police Station Exceptional Case Claims (CRM18) There is no change to the submission of CRM18 claims. Submit CRM18 claims to the Magistrates’ Billing Team in Nottingham. Email Crime.Exceptional@Justice.gov.uk Alternatively, you can send by post or DX: Legal Aid Agency 3rd Floor, B3.20 1 Unity Square Queensbridge Road Nottingham NG2 1AW DX 10035 Nottingham CRM18s cannot be accepted via Secure File Exchange. Payments are currently unable to be processed on CWA. Crime billing: Prison Law Exceptional Case Claims (CRM18A) There is no change to the submission of CRM18A claims. Submit CRM18A (Prison Law Escape Fee) claims to the Magistrates Billing Team in Nottingham: Legal Aid Agency 3rd Floor, B3.20 1 Unity Square Queensbridge Road Nottingham NG2 1AW DX 10035 Nottingham CRM18As cannot be accepted via Secure File Exchange, or by email. Payments are currently unable to be processed on CWA. Crime billing: Contempt of Court (CRM CLAIM 11) There is no change to the submission of CRM Claim11 claims The submission and processing of Contempt of Court claims is unaffected. Cost extensions for Contempt of Court work are also unaffected Crime billing: Graduated Fees Graduated fee (LGFS and AGFS) claim assessment has now recommenced. Please continue to submit bills via CCCD in the normal way. When submitting on CCCD, please upload a copy of the original representation order to aid with assessment. If you are claiming a Committal for Sentence fixed fee on a case where no MAAT number has been provided, please use 4900900 as a dummy number to allow you to enter the claim on CCCD. Crime billing: Very High Cost Cases (VHCC) and Interim Fixed Fee Offer (IFFO) Very High Cost Cases (VHCC) and Interim Fixed Fee Offer (IFFO) claim assessment has also recommenced and payments are being made via a contingency process. Please continue to submit bills to your Case Manager by email. Civil applications Civil applications: Submitting funding requests and correspondence to the Civil Applications Team We are working hard to restore access to LAA online services. In light of the prolonged period of system outage following the IT incident, the LAA will bring an enhanced set of business continuity arrangements into force on 27 June 2025. These arrangements will remain in effect until further notice. Please note that prior to this date, the existing contingency process will remain in place. Our priority remains to maintain access to justice and ensure legal aid providers can be paid. These enhanced measures are designed to support legal aid providers, reduce administrative burden, and prevent a significant case backlog while contingency measures are in place. Civil applications: Exceptional and complex cases For all matters involving exceptional and complex cases, please click here Exceptional and Complex Cases Team ECCT Submission Quick Guide ( MS Word Document , 44.7 KB ) for further information on how to submit work. Civil applications: High-Cost Family work For all High-Cost Family related work please click here High Cost Family (HCF) Contingency Processes ( MS Word Document , 21.2 KB ) for further information on how to submit work. Please use the High Cost Family submission cover sheet ( MS Word Document , 27.9 KB ) . Civil applications: Delegated functions to grant emergency funding Providers can use delegated functions to grant themselves emergency funding if they have any work to undertake (which falls within the scope of Legal Aid regulations) and any subsequent work under the time limit of the emergency certificate. Emergency representation granted under Delegated Functions will contain 24-weeks and £6,750 costs limitations (providers have the ability to use delegated functions for a higher cost limit under emergency representation where it can be justified). The LAA will apply the limitations at the point we issue the certificate, any existing grants under Delegated Functions which have not been issued by LAA will include these new limitations also. There is no need for providers to submit Delegated Functions applications to the LAA under contingency, providers can submit on CCMS when LAA systems are restored. Delegated Functions and Delegated Authorities tables can be accesses via the following links. Table of delegated functions for the Civil Legal Aid (Financial Resources and Payment for Services) Regulations 2013 Table of Delegated Functions Financial Resources June 2025 ( MS Word Document , 63.5 KB ) Table of Delegated Functions for the Civil Legal Aid (Procedure) Regulations 2012 Table of Delegated Functions Procedure Regulations August 2025 ( MS Word Document , 72.5 KB ) Table of Delegated Functions for the Civil Legal Aid (Merits Criteria) Regulations 2013 Table of Delegated Functions Merits Criteria June 2025 ( MS Word Document , 73.1 KB ) The LAA will honour all uses of Delegated Functions which comply with the provisions of the relevant Contract and any applicable regulations. If it is determined that the merits criteria are not met at the point the LAA assesses the application, an embargo and/or discharge of the emergency certificate will take place from that date. Providers will be able to claim for work up to that date. Where providers have used delegated functions, they can continue to amend for any related proceedings, scope and cost limitations of their emergency grant for the 24 weeks, or until they submit the application on CCMS. Providers when using delegated functions should capture all the information they would normally, including undertaking the client’s financial assessment and capturing any required evidence of the client financial circumstances. The requirement to notify the Legal Aid Agency of an emergency grant within 5 days has been waived. Applications should be submitted once access to the LAA Online Portal has been restored. Civil applications: Support for providers using delegated functions To support providers using delegated functions to grant emergency funding, the LAA has developed two services and created information recordings/documents: For certain private law matters evidence of domestic abuse or child protection is needed to bring the proceeding within scope of legal aid. Given these types of evidence are prescribed by regulation to meet certain criteria, we sometimes cannot honour the use of delegated functions where those criteria are not met. To mitigate this, we are offering an email service so providers can check with the LAA whether evidence would be considered valid to bring the matter into scope before delegated functions are used. There is no need to email every piece of evidence to the LAA using this service prior to delegating functions. This service is only intended to be available where the provider is concerned that the evidence may not be accepted by the LAA. Where a provider is concerned that the evidence of domestic abuse or child protection they hold may not be accepted by the LAA to bring proceedings within scope of certain private law family matters, they can have it checked by emailing GatewayEvidenceCheck@justice.gov.uk . You should provide the clients name, opponents name, and proceedings to be applied for and your client’s involvement. The LAA will consider the evidence and advise you if it is acceptable. You should attach our email to your application when you are able to submit it via CCMS. We will provide an explanation if the evidence is not acceptable. We will aim to respond to these emails within 48 hours. Providers who have complex queries in relation to a client’s financial eligibility assessment, can seek assistance from a dedicated team of caseworkers before granting emergency representation under delegated functions. Queries should be sent to ContactMeansExpert@justice.gov.uk we will aim to respond to these emails within 48 hours. There are recordings and documents available on Legal Aid Learning, Civil Contingency page https://legalaidlearning.justice.gov.uk/civil-contingency/ to assist when making applications (link to be available 27 June). Civil applications: Non-Means, Non-Merits Cases Providers are authorised to sign off on applications and carry on work in non-means and non-merits tested cases. These are Special Children Act matters and parental placement and adoption cases. When access is restored to the LAA systems, applications can be submitted, and certificates will be backdated to the initial date work began. Please note that for a parental placement and adoption case the client must be the parent or have parental responsibility and must oppose the order being made. If the client does not oppose the order, then the matter falls to be means and merits tested. Civil applications: Applications already submitted via CCMS We are working to gain access to those submissions that were submitted to CCMS (but had not been processed when system access was removed) shortly after we gain access to our internal systems. If the provider has delegated functions, there is no need to do anything as the emergency time limitation will be issued to 24 weeks. If delegated functions were not used the provider can consider exercising delegated functions (were available to them) to carry on work required or follow the contingency process below if delegated functions cannot be used. Civil applications: Delegated functions to amend a substantive certificate Where the LAA has made an initial substantive determination, providers can now amend new and existing cases under delegated functions. This will include changing scope limitations, adding new proceedings and amending costs limitations to a maximum of £7,900 where a higher limit is not already in place. The determination will need to be in the same Category of Law as the original determination and will need to arise out of the same dispute, issue or incident as the original determination. For cases under the Family Category of Law this means the proceedings being covered are likely to be recorded on the same certificates by the LAA. These changes will not apply in the following circumstances and will require determinations to be made by the LAA: Determinations in relation to judicial review Claims for damages Changing the level of service to full representation following an original determination that the client qualifies for investigative representation Applications to the Court of Appeal or any onward proceedings beyond this stage Civil legal services being provided by virtue of a relevant contract in the following areas Claims Against Public Authorities Immigration and Asylum Clinical Negligence Discrimination Civil legal services described as Associated Civil Work provided under the Standard Crime Contract Providers will keep a file record of amendment under delegated functions. The amendment will need to be submitted to LAA via CCMS once system access has been restored. Providers will need to add relevant proceeding/scope/costs to CCMS when sending the amendment. In the statement of case section providers must confirm the date an amendment was made under delegated functions. The LAA will approve amendments granted by providers, not applying a separate assessment to the merits. Providers will just need to demonstrate the work is within scope under Part 1, Schedule 1 of LASPO. If providers seek above £7,900 cost limit following use of delegated functions on a substantive certificate, they can submit the amendment for a decision at a later date, the LAA will exercise the backdating provisions were required. If the provider wants the LAA to make the decision, if they are unsure if the merits criteria is being met, they should submit a substantive amendment to the LAA following the substantive amendment section below. Civil applications: Signed declarations when using delegated function The following applies in relation to grants of emergency representation via Delegated Functions made during the contingency process: A client signature is not required for the provider to grant emergency representation, which can be in place for up to 24 weeks. The LAA will not retrospectively challenge this grant for the lack of a signature if there is clear evidence (for example, email exchanges or telephone attendance notes etc) on the file that the grant was legitimately made in accordance with the client wishes. The evidence needs to demonstrate one of the following: The client formed the appropriate intention to sign and submit the application form, or - You have been directly appointed by a court or tribunal to act for the client. At the point that an application can, be submitted onto CCMS, you should seek a signature from you client at the earliest possible opportunity. You may still submit a claim if you are unable to secure a client signature, including a digital signature, where: It is clear reasonable attempts have been made to secure the client’s signature, and you have provided evidence of the client’s intention to sign the form, or You have been appointed to act for a client by a court or tribunal. Civil applications: When providers are unable to use delegated functions to issue emergency funding Providers will not need to request a contingency reference number in advance. Providers will be able to submit the civil application forms and civil means-testing forms with supporting documents which are relevant to the merits of the case and the client’s financial means assessment direct to ContactCivil@justice.gov.uk . To ensure the email is assigned to the correct team as quick as possible please ensure the subject line is titled ‘LAA BC Plus – Type of Application form – Type of Means Form (if applicable) - client’s name – firm name’ Example: Any decisions made by the LAA on paper applications during contingency arrangements will be entered by the LAA onto CCMS once system access has been restored. Civil applications: Emergency Applications CIV APP6 should be used when there is no time to make a full application, and delegated functions cannot be used. To support the assessment, include: Statement of case Pre action correspondence Counsels’ opinion if obtained/relevant Any documents relevant to the application such as court orders, applications to court, opponents statement, and so on The relevant means form and supporting documents (unless the client is a child) Evidence of domestic abuse or child protection (private law family matters only) Civil applications: Substantive Applications Where a provider cannot delegate functions, the provider should use a CIV APP1 for legal representation in non-family proceedings or a CIV APP3 for family help (higher) and legal representation in family proceedings. These forms need to be accompanied with the relevant civil Means assessment forms (please note no means form is required where the applicant is a child). To support the assessment, include: Statement of case in support of application Valid LASPO evidence to bring the new proceedings into scope (if applicable) Pre action correspondence (if applicant/Claimant) Counsels’ opinion if obtained/relevant Any other documents relevant to the application such as court orders, applications to court, opponents statement, and so on If you have had an application, or application granted under contingency, and you are now seeking to amend this please ensure in your covering email you explain this case was granted under contingency and attach a copy of your granted notification. Civil applications: Means Assessment If your client is on a passported benefit they will need to complete the CIV Means 2 form ensuring all sections are completed and the form is signed and dated. Any evidence required to support the assessment should also be attached to avoid delays in requests for further information. Universal Credit is the main passported benefit (if in payment) there are still some individuals who will receive legacy benefits, these include, Income Support, Income Based Job-Seekers Allowance, Income related Employment Support Allowance and Guarantee State Pension Credit. Please note if your client is in receipt of a passporting benefit but also self-employed or in a business partnership, they must also complete form CIV Means 2A. Wherever possible, passported applications should also be submitted with a screenshot or download of the client’s latest monthly Universal Credit notification (the latter is not essential, but will speed up the passporting process if it is provided). If your client is not on a passported benefit they will need to complete the CIV Means 1 form ensuring all sections are completed and the form is signed and dated. Any evidence required to support the assessment should also be attached to avoid delays in requests for further information, that is wage slips, bank statements. If your client is self-employed, they will also be required to submit a CIV Means 1A, if the client is trading in a self-employed partnership, they will also need to complete the CIV Means 1B or the CIV Means 1C if they are a company director or shareholder in a limited company to accompany the CIV Means 1. If the client is a child (under the age of 18) there is no requirement to submit a Means form. Civil applications: Substantive Amendments CIV APP8 forms to amend a substantive certificate to change proceedings, change scope limitation, change cost limitation, change of solicitor should be submitted via email to Contactcivil@justice.gov.uk . Please ensure all documents that would ordinarily be uploaded to CCMS are attached. To support the assessment, include: Copy of the latest certificate, showing the scope of cover and proceedings (were possible) Current cost limit Statement of case in support of amendment Supporting Court Orders and reports for any Final Hearing listing (if applicable) Valid LASPO evidence to bring the new proceedings into scope (if applicable) Letter from the existing provider on record for the certificate advising they consent for the transfer to take place (for change of solicitor requests) Please note above, delegated functions can now be used to amend a substantive certificate (which falls within the scope of Legal Aid regulations). Also, providers can submit the amendment for a decision at a later date, the LAA will exercise the backdating provisions were required. Civil applications: Further information requests If further information is required in relation to your client’s application or assessment an email will be sent to you via the ContactCivil@justice.gov.uk address. The email will contain a reference in the heading that will make it easy for the LAA to identify which caseworker has ownership of the case, so it is important that the information is returned with that reference still visible in the heading. Civil applications: Appeals If you wish to request a review of a decision made by the LAA under this process, please submit your appeal via email to contactcivil@justice.gov.uk within 14 days of the decision being communicated. Include the word ‘Appeal’ in the email subject line for identification. Your submission should contain: A full statement of appeal Any supporting documentation Relevant client details The decision you are requesting to be reviewed You will receive a response once the review is complete. If the original decision is upheld, we will inform you of any further right of appeal to an independent funding adjudicator. Where a provider withdraws a determination (see below) and the client seeks a review, the same process will apply. If an appeal was submitted before the system went down and no determination was made, please follow the same procedure here including the initial decision that was received from CCMS if available, alternatively you could consider making new application. Civil applications: Withdrawals Under the new arrangements until further notice providers will be able to withdraw funding in the following circumstances: The services made available by the determination have been provided The proceedings to which the determination relates have been concluded The individual consents The individual has died In the above circumstance providers will need to make a file note that funding has been withdrawn, and update CCMS when access is restored. For all other withdrawal reasons provider should submit the CIV APP11 form with all relevant information provided. These should be emailed to contactcivil@justice.gov.uk Include the word ‘Withdrawal’ in the email subject line for identification. We will be in contact with any discharge or show cause issued on the certificate. Outcomes will need to be submitted via CCMS once system access has been restored to enable the submission of your claim for costs. Civil applications: Re-assessments Re-assessment requests will only be accepted where a provider believes that a client is now out of scope to receive legal aid or where there is evidence that the client has failed to make a material disclosure when applying for legal aid. Your client may also be asked to provide fresh means forms where the LAA has received representations from a third party which cast significant doubt on the client’s ongoing eligibility for legal aid. Include the word ‘Reassessment’ in the email subject line for identification. Please follow the Means assessment section above to inform which form should be submitted. Civil applications: Means Reviews If you want a review of an assessment that has already been completed on CCMS you will need to provide a copy of the application plus the associated documentation that was originally uploaded onto the system emailed to ContactCivil@Justice.gov.uk . Include the word ‘Means Review’ in the email subject line for identification. Civil applications: Contributions Please note Contribution payments will be waived for any applications received on or after 27 June 2025 until further notice. No contribution payments are due during the period of the emergency legislation and will not be required to be paid later. Contributions will become payable once Statutory Instrument is reversed and only from that date moving forward if case is ongoing. The LAA will still complete assessments on new cases but not request contributions whilst the waiver is in place. These changes also apply to any cases received before 27 June 2025 where the client is making a monthly contribution. Please inform these clients to stop making payments in respect of any which are due on or after 27 June 2025. Payments will be reinstated when these changes are reversed at a later date. Please note, the provisions in the Statutory Instrument prevent clients who have made contributions on an existing case from seeking its withdrawal and reapplying for funding in the same matter to which the initial civil legal services have been provided. Civil applications: Prior Authorities Civil Prior Authority requests where the provider cannot justify the expense of expert assessment, testing, and so on, on assessment can be submitted to the LAA using the CIV APP8A and submitted directly to CivilPriorAuthorityRequests@Justice.gov.uk . Please ensure you detail that you have a current live certificate on CCMS, that you have delegated functions to grant emergency funding or been granted an application under LAA Contingency in this matter. Civil applications: Provider transfer To amend a substantive certificate, to change the provider firm on record a CIV APP8 form should be completed and sent via email to Contactcivil@justice.gov.uk . Please ensure all documents that would ordinarily be uploaded to CCMS are attached. To support the assessment, including the letter from the existing provider on record for the certificate, advising they consent for the transfer to take place. If a client wishes to transfer providers when the initial firm has delegated functions for an emergency certificate and have yet to receive a certificate from the LAA or there is a pending decision in CCMS before the system went down in Contingency: New firm - If you are instructed you should use delegated functions where available or submit a new application to LAA following contingency arrangements, advising the client was previously instructing another firm with all the details, including the letter from the existing provider on record for the certificate, advising they consent for the transfer to take place. The provider should also when submitting the application note in their statement of case/merits report that they ‘provide undertaking that when they bill the case; the firm will answer the change of solicitor questions to generate the correct fee’. Old firm - If you are currently awaiting confirmation via CCMS, for an application which was submitted before the system went down, you should submit a case enquiry once access to the portal has been restored advising you are no longer being instructed and the date this was effective from. If you have yet to submit an application due to delegating functions under contingency protocols, you should advise that you are no longer instructed, which firm has taken over the certificate and the date this is effective from when you submit your application to us once access to the portal has been restored. The provider should also when submitting the application note in their statement of case/merits report that they ‘provide undertaking that when they bill the case; the firm will answer the change of solicitor questions to generate the correct fee’. Civil applications: queries For all queries that would previously have been submitted as a Case Enquiry, please email contactcivil@justice.gov.uk . Include the word ‘Query’ in the email subject line for identification. For case-specific queries, include the following details to assist the caseworker: Certificate reference number / Contingency number Relevant case details and supporting evidence (if applicable) If there are any queries on the use of delegated functions due to complexity or the need for clarification on a point our customer service team can be contacted on 0300 200 2020. Civil application and means-testing forms Where you would ordinarily use CCMS, please submit applications and means assessments using the appropriate forms on GOV.UK: Civil application forms CIV APP1: application for civil legal aid certificate CIV APP3: application for legal aid in family proceedings CIV APP6: legal aid emergency application CIV APP8: application for amendment (civil) CIV APP8A: application for prior authority/change (cost limitation) CIV APP11: application for withdrawal Civil means-testing forms CIV MEANS 1: financial assessment form, not passported CIV MEANS 1A: self-employed sole trader CIV MEANS 1B: trading in a self-employed partnership CIV MEANS 1C: company director or a shareholder in a limited company CIV MEANS 2: financial assessment form for legal aid clients CIV MEANS 2A: passported, self employed or in business partnership CIV MEANS 3: client living outside the UK Financial assessment forms checklist, civil representation Civil applications: Large Volume Submissions For large bundles of documents that cannot be sent via email please contact SFESupport@justice.gov.uk to register for access to Secure File Exchange. If you have previously used Secure File Exchange to submit documents to the LAA, you will still need to contact SFESupport@justice.gov.uk to request access to this specific workspace ‘Civil Applications’ following this guidance: Guidance for external requests to use secure file exchange (SFE) – Legal Aid Learning . Please ensure all email submissions are clearly labelled and include the relevant reference details to help expedite processing. We appreciate your cooperation and will continue to provide updates as processes evolve. Crime applications Restoration Of Crime Systems Access to Crime Apply and Submit a Crime Form has now been restored. Please note that the use of Crime Apply is mandatory for all Criminal Legal Aid applications from 1 October. Any application sent in by the contingency process (by e-mail) on or after this date will be rejected. If you are unable to access Sign in to Legal Aid Services, please contact the Online Support Team (0300 200 2020) or inform your Contract Manager. The use of Submit a Crime Form is mandatory for all CRM4 and CRM5 applications from 22 September. Any applications sent in by the contingency process (by e-mail) on or after this date will be rejected. If you are unable to access Sign in to Legal Aid Services, please contact the Online Support Team (0300 200 2020) or inform your Contract Manager. The End of Enhanced Business Continuity Measures for Crime Applications The LAA’s enhanced Business Continuity measures for Crime applications have ended on 30 September 2025. For Crime, this marks the final transition back to our business-as-usual processes. As of 00:00, 1 October 2025: Delegated authority for representation order applications in all case types have ended. You will no longer have authority to grant representation in any case type under delegated powers, please take note of this when instructed from 00:00, 1 October 2025 onwards. If you have any questions on a specific circumstance that is not clear, please refer to the guidance on submitting criminal legal aid applications in the first instance Proceeding once instructed under delegated authority after this date from 00:00, 1 October 2025 will be ultra vires and would entitle the LAA to refuse payment of any associated fees. We understand that this return to previous rules will increase your time spent submitting applications in the first instance, but we are ready to support you through this process and answer any questions you may have. Guidance on the Use of Delegated Functions From 27 June 2025 Regulations have been amended to delegate the grant of Representation to providers on Summary only, Either way and Prescribed Proceedings cases in the Magistrates’ Court or the Youth Court, where the defendant is on a passported benefit, unemployed or is a Youth. Providers should use their delegated functions to self-grant representation for cases where they have been unable to submit an application to the LAA since 7 May. This only applies to cases where the defendant is on a passported benefit, is unemployed, or is a Youth. Providers will be able to backdate the grant of representation to the date the client instructed the provider (either in-person or remotely) to make an application. Please read the Criminal and Civil Legal Aid (Amendment) Regulations 2025, and the tables of delegated authorities for details of the regulation amendments. All links to the amended regulations and tables of delegated authorities can be accessed via the following links: The Criminal and Civil Legal Aid (Amendment) Regulations 2025 Criminal Legal Aid tables of Delegated Authorities (accessed here - Work out who qualifies for criminal legal aid - GOV.UK ) Table of Delegated Authorities for the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 LASPO - Table of Delegated Authorities (MS Word Document, 30.5 KB) Table of Delegated Authorities for the Criminal Legal Aid (General) Regulations 2013 Criminal Legal Aid (General) Regulations 2013 - Table of delegated authorities (MS Word Document, 35.7 KB) Table of Delegated Authorities for the Criminal Legal Aid (Financial Resources) Regulations 2013 Criminal Legal Aid (Financial Resources) Regulations 2013 - Table of Delegated Authorities (MS Word Document, 43 KB) Determinations relating to substantive either way cases heard in the Magistrates’ Court, which are subsequently committed to the Crown Court for sentencing, are also delegated to providers – though the requirement for the client to be on a passported benefit, unemployed, or is a Youth still apply. This also applies to cases committed to the Crown Court for Sentence where a Magistrates’ Court Representation Order has not previously been granted. The provider can grant for a defendant who is in receipt of a passported benefit, is unemployed or is a Youth. If the defendant is employed, self-employed, a director or is living off savings, they will need to submit an application to the LAA. If the defendant is unemployed, but their partner is employed, self-employed, a director or is living off savings, these will also need to be submitted to the LAA. This guidance sets out the arrangements in more detail. We would ask all providers to read this guidance carefully, as it does further change the way that we will process applications during the contingency period. These arrangements will continue until further notice. Please check the current processing dates here Crime processing dates - GOV.UK before chasing any outstanding application or claim. This will ensure the team can focus all available resources on getting your work processed more swiftly. Crime applications: Applications already submitted via Crime Apply We have now been able to access those applications that were submitted to Crime Apply which had not been processed when system access was removed. We have now started to assess these applications and hope to have completed this exercise very shortly. Providers do not need to do anything in relation to these applications – we will email providers with the result of our assessment once we are able to complete them. Crime applications: Summary only \ Either Way applications where the proceedings are taking place in the Magistrates’ Court Regulations and the table of delegated authorities have been amended to delegate the grant of Representation to providers on Summary only, Either way and Prescribed Proceedings cases in the Magistrates’ Court or the Youth Court, where the defendant is on a passported benefit, unemployed or is a Youth. Please view Criminal legal aid: means testing - GOV.UK and the Criminal Legal Aid Manual ( PDF , 1.73 MB , 199 pages ) . If your application relates to any of these cases and the proceedings are being heard in the Magistrates Court and the applicant is on a Passported benefit, is unemployed or is a Youth, please use delegated authority to make a determination on the means and merits (Interests of Justice). Please view section 8 The Interests of Justice (IOJ) test of the Criminal Legal Aid Manual Criminal Legal Aid Manual ( PDF , 1.73 MB , 199 pages ) . Please note that this delegated authority does not apply if the defendant is employed, self-employed, a director or is living off savings, or if the defendant’s partner is employed, self-employed, a director or is living off savings. Please keep a note of your IOJ reasoning on file along with full details of your client’s means (including all relevant evidence). We would recommend that you complete a copy of the CRM14/15 and keep this on file for this purpose, although this isn’t mandatory. It is, however, essential that you do keep a copy of the signed declaration page and the completed Representation Order on file. Please view section 3.4.10 Evidence Requirements of the Criminal Legal Aid Manual ( PDF , 1.73 MB , 199 pages ) and Annex B of the Criminal Bills Assessment Manual ( PDF , 1.53 MB , 144 pages ) . Determinations relating to substantive either way cases heard in the Magistrates’ Court, which are subsequently committed to the Crown Court for sentencing, are also delegated to providers – though the requirement for the client to be on a passported benefit, unemployed, or is a Youth, still apply. Do not submit an email application for these cases (although as already stated if the defendant is employed, self-employed, a director or is living off savings please email these applications for consideration). Two template Representation Orders are available on the GOV.UK website for cases where a determination can be made by a provider. Magistrates Court sentencing template Magistrates court through to sentence in Crown Court template v4 ( MS Word Document , 39.7 KB ) Crown Court sentencing template Crown Court sentencing template v3 ( MS Word Document , 39.3 KB ) Providers should select the appropriate template depending on whether they are instructed whilst in the magistrates’ court or only after the case has been committed to Crown Court for sentence. If your client passes the means and merits assessment, you must complete the Representation Order, hold on file and provide a copy to your client. Please note that the URN is the Unique Reference Number generated by the shared online system known as “Common Platform”. If the case is sent to the Crown Court for trial, an application for a Crown Court Representation Order must be submitted to the LAA. Please see “All Other Applications” below for further information. If you require a backdated representation order date stamp, use the date the client instructed you (either in-person or remotely) to make an application. Please take care when reviewing the offences on the case to ensure you have correctly determined the case classification. To receive an indication if your client will pass the means test for these cases, please use the financial eligibility calculator for criminal legal aid: Criminal legal aid: means testing - GOV.UK . This will be particularly important where your client is on benefits but is not passported. Whilst this is not mandatory, we would strongly advise providers to use this tool. Providers will have Delegated Authority to withdraw the Representation Order for the cases where they have used Delegated Authority to make a determination. When withdrawing a Representation Order, providers must inform their client that the Representation Order has been withdrawn, and must keep a file note that this has been done, but there is no requirement to use a standard template for this If you have exercised your delegated authority, you must register your association with the case on Common Platform by using HMCTS’ self-service process as highlighted on the GOV.UK website - Find a case, self-serve the IDPC and fully access a case in Common Platform - GOV.UK If the defendant has a change in financial circumstances and can no longer be considered as being in receipt of a passporting benefit, or considered as unemployed, an application for change in financial circumstances should be submitted to the LAA to determine whether the defendant is financially eligible for legal aid, for example e.g. the defendant or their partner becomes employed/ self-employed. There are change in financial circumstances that are not required to be submitted to the LAA, for example reassessments are not required for Youths turning 18 and you do not need to submit a CIFC to the LAA where the defendant was initially in receipt of a passporting benefit but is now in receipt of a non-passporting benefit. Crime applications: Stockpiled Applications The new regulations will allow providers to treat the determination as having effect from either 7 May 2025 or the date the client instructed the provider (either in-person or remotely) to make an application, whichever is the latter. This means that providers should use devolved powers on all cases that they have stockpiled if they meet the criteria (relating to the venue / clients means position) set out above. Crime applications: All Other Applications For all other application types (other than the case types referenced in “Summary only \ Either Way \ Prescribed Proceedings applications where the proceedings are taking place in the Magistrates’ Court \ Youth Court”) please follow the contingency process by manually completing the CRM14 and CRM15 forms available online ( CRM14: criminal legal aid application form - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk) and submitting them by email as follows: For passported / unemployed / youths and employed applicants please send these to: Crime.applications@Justice.gov.uk For self-employed, directors, non-means tested, and hardship applications please send these to: nationalcrimeteam@justice.gov.uk For further details of non-means tested applications please refer to Section 25 – Annex H – Prescribed proceedings in the Criminal Legal Aid Manual Criminal Legal Aid Manual ( PDF , 1.73 MB , 199 pages ) but submit via email rather than using the Apply for criminal legal aid service. We would encourage providers to initially focus on applications where a contribution might be payable, as we will be processing applications in strict date order. Applications submitted to the LAA must be fully completed, and all necessary evidence must be attached in accordance with the current guidance and regulations. This is crucial to avoid your application being rejected and to prevent any further delays in receiving a decision. Initial applications should be submitted to the email address provided above. However, if your application is rejected, you may receive a reply from our existing NCAT mailboxes. In such cases, please reply to Crime.applications@justice.gov.uk and include both the initial application and attachments from your original submission, along with any additional evidence or information that has been requested. We will have many thousands of emails to deal with, and finding an earlier email to match up with additional information provided will not be possible. If your application was previously rejected when the Crime Apply service was still online, please note that we don’t have access to these applications at this time. In these circumstances, please complete a new CRM14/CRM15 as appropriate and email into the address above. Please clearly indicate on the form(s) that this was previously rejected in Apply. Additionally, please clearly indicate on the form if the date stamp needs to be backdated due to the service being offline. Note that during this contingency only, we will backdate all applications (including indictable only) to the date that they would have been submitted had the portal been available. Once Crime Apply becomes available, we will revert to the existing backdating arrangements as set out in CLAM. Crime applications: Extradition Matters Please note that Extradition matters fall outside of the revised Business Continuity arrangements, and so all applications for Extradition MUST be submitted to the LAA for processing. To ensure that we can process these applications on a priority basis, please e-mail all relevant forms (CRM14 etc) to the Nottingham office NottinghamCAT@justice.gov.uk . Crime applications: Post submission Evidence (PSE) Please send your post submission evidence applications to the following email addresses, clearly indicating in the subject that the email relates to a PSE application. Please use one of the following for passported / unemployed / youths and employed applicants: BirminghamCAT@justice.gov.uk or LiverpoolCAT@justice.gov.uk or NottinghamCAT@justice.gov.uk For applicants that are self-employed, or a director please send these to: nationalcrimeteam@justice.gov.uk Please ensure you provide sufficient details to assist us in locating the substantive application. Where possible the following information should be provided: Crime Apply application reference, MAAT ID and defendant’s name and date of birth. Crime applications: Passported applicants The process for applicants in receipt of a Passported Benefit has had to be temporarily revised given that the link with DWP is currently unavailable. An applicant may be passported on means if they have provided suitable evidence of their passported benefit. Applicants in court custody For applicants who are in court custody and claim to be in receipt of a passported benefit, these applications can be automatically passported and do not have to provide their/partner’s NINO. The LAA appreciates the difficulties that applicants are likely to have accessing this information in these circumstances. (NINOs continue to be mandatory for all other applicants as per normal process). Alternative to Passporting Where the applicant is unable to provide their NINO or evidence of their passported benefit, the application can be processed as a non passported application. This will require a means assessment which may take slightly longer to complete. You do not have to provide evidence of non passported benefit income as per usual process. To avoid delays in processing your application, please provide the details of any benefits the defendant receives, this should include the name of the benefit, the amount and frequency of the payments as indicated at question 16 on the application form. Please also complete questions 17 to 22 (and relevant questions relating to capital on the CRM15), even where you have indicated the defendant is on a passported benefit. In line with existing guidance and regulations, please continue to provide the applicant’s and/or partner’s National Insurance Number. Please note that for cases that may progress to the Crown court, it is in your client’s best interests to provide proof of their passported benefit because if they are convicted as a non passported applicant, they may be liable for a contribution at the end of the case. See Section 33 of the Criminal Legal Aid Manual regarding this ‘benefit bypass’. Examples of benefit evidence Evidence of receipt of a passported benefit would be satisfied by one of the following: a recent bank or building society statement showing a payment within the last 3 months - the benefit type must be specified on the statement a benefit notification letter dated within 3 months a benefit notification letter older than 3 months supported by a recent bank or building society statement showing a payment within the last 3 months a screenshot of the payments from the Universal Credit online account. If the client can only provide a bank statement which does not specify the type of benefit, then process the application as non-passported (‘benefits bypass’) as previously referred. Additional guidance that may help obtaining evidence direct from DWP: Get a proof of benefit letter - GOV.UK Guidance on benefit income can be found in the Criminal Legal Aid Manual , including the regular payment amount at Annex S. Any applications sent to the LAA continue to follow the usual evidence requirements. Please note, if the evidence of Universal Credit shows a payment of zero, the applicant is not in receipt of a UC payment and should therefore not be assessed as passported. Crime applications: Change in Financial Circumstances (CIFC) applications Applications for change in financial circumstances should be submitted using the same submission method outlined in “All Other Applications” above. Applications for CIFC where the provider has granted the Representation Order are only required to be submitted to the LAA in certain circumstances (please see “Summary only \ Either Way \ Prescribed Proceedings applications where the proceedings are taking place in the Magistrates’ Court \ Youth Court.”) Please use the relevant email address for your submission based on the applicant’s financial circumstances and use the same CRM14 / CRM15 forms for this submission. Please indicate clearly the date you would have submitted. Where a change in circumstances application is submitted more than 28 days after the change it should be accompanied by a reasonable explanation for not complying with the time limit. If the explanation is deemed to be acceptable then the reassessment can be backdated to the date of the change. (CLAM 14.1.1). Crime applications: Interests of Justice (IOJ) Widgery criteria The IOJ reasons should be given to support your legal aid application. We appreciate when the Crime Apply service was online, for some applications you received a message to state the IOJ justification was not required. However, for all applications as part of the contingency, please provide the IOJ justification in line with the Widgery criteria. For those cases that you are not submitting to the LAA, please keep a note of the IOJ reasons on file. Crime applications: Declaration signatures Guidance and regulations remain in place for signatures for applicants and partners. For further information please view The Criminal Legal Aid Manual 3.4.6 Signing the form Criminal Legal Aid Manual ( PDF , 1.73 MB , 199 pages ) . The applicant must provide a fresh signature with each application, and you must not use saved copies of the electronic signature. For applications submitted via Crime Apply, and previously via eForms, we did not ask for evidence of the signature itself and either an undertaking check box was ticked or declaration page to confirm that the signatures(s) has been obtained and kept on file. On the CRM14 form we have followed the same format. There is now just a check box to confirm your declaration and that you have the relevant signed declarations on file. You agree to the declaration as set out on the form and agree to obtain and keep on file the applicants and partners (where applicable) signature. As before you will just need to get a fresh signature with each application, including for Change in Financial Circumstances. We have replaced the CRM14 and CRM15 PDF forms on GOV.UK with updated versions. We have done this to make submitting the PDF forms as part of the contingency arrangements as clear and as straightforward as possible. Crime applications: Claiming for Cases where no MAAT Number has been supplied If you need to claim for the case before our systems are back up (and so you have not been able to submit the application), please feel free to do this. Whilst we understand that you will not have a MAAT number, a note on the file referring to the incident will be sufficient for audit purposes. If you need to submit a CRM7, an explanatory note will equally suffice. As you will not have received a MAAT number for these cases, please use 900900 as a dummy MAAT number when claiming. This is essential to ensure that it is clear that your claim is a contingency claim and allows us to track and monitor these. When claiming a Committal for Sentence fixed fee on CCCD, the system requires a 7 digit MAAT number to be used to allow the claim to be submitted. For these cases only, please use 4900900 when claiming. Crime applications: Additional guidance The Legal Aid Agency will continue to implement our soft reject policy where possible, to obtain certain information over the telephone to assist with processing your application. Please provide up to date contact details on your application to assist with processing. If an LAA caseworker contacts you, please aim to assist them as best as possible to provide the information or clarification needed to avoid your application being rejected. If you would like documentation relating to your application to be sent to an additional or alternative email address, please indicate this in your email to us. Please be aware that we have limited access to printing facilities, as such these documents are being issued via email only. We would be much obliged if you could please relay the contents to your client. Please use the following link to check our current application processing dates: Crime processing dates - GOV.UK Please do not contact our customer service team or our alternative mailboxes to chase an update on your application if it was submitted within the current processing timeline mentioned on the weblink. This will impact our ability to focus all of our resource on processing applications and in turn will lead to unnecessary delays. If you have not heard from us 2 days after the oldest dates shown in the weblink, please contact us for an update on your application. To assist with processing your applications correctly on the first submission and reducing the administrative burden on your firm and the LAA, please ensure you clearly indicate on the application if your representation order needs to be backdated. Please specify the exact date for both initial applications and ‘Change in Financial Circumstances’ applications. 5.55 of the Standard Crime Contract Specification Standard Crime Contract Specification ( PDF , 1.16 MB , 168 pages ) states, “You may charge for work done in the exercise of Delegated Functions and recording of such exercise”, although we recognise that this will only make a difference to the fee claimed in limited circumstances. Crime applications: Changes to CRM14 Changes have been made to the CRM14 as follows: A new field on page 1 for the unique reference number (URN) for your client’s case - it is important that you provide the URN from the shared online system known as ‘common platform’ for the LAA to find the HMCTS record - read further guidance on the URN and how to obtain it. A new appeal lodged date field on page 1 for Appeals to Crown Court A new page (page 10) for further information to match the Apply for criminal legal aid service. For example, you may use this field to tell us about any charges there is not space for at that question as there is currently only space for 4 offences. To help streamline our processing and improve efficiency, we kindly request that going forward, providers submit only one application per email. This adjustment will take effect immediately and is expected to have a positive impact on our workflow, enabling faster decision making for you. Crime applications: Examples of when to submit / not submit Case Type Means Situation Action Required Summary Only / Either Way / Prescribed Proceedings in the Magistrates’ Court or Youth Court Passported / Unemployed / Youth Please do not submit. Regulations have been amended to delegate the grant of Representation to providers. We recommend that you confirm defendants means eligibility using the online calculator Summary Only / Either Way in the Magistrates’ Court Employed / self-employed / director / living off savings Please submit for assessment Either Way cases heard in the Magistrates’ Court that has been committed to Crown Court for sentencing Passported / Unemployed / Youth Please do not submit. Regulations have been amended to delegate the grant of Representation to providers. We recommend that you confirm defendants means eligibility using the online calculator Either Way cases heard in the Magistrates’ Court that has been committed to Crown Court for sentencing Employed / self-employed / director / living off savings Please submit for assessment Indictable Only All means types Please submit for assessment Trial already in Crown Court All means types Please submit for assessment Committal for Sentence Passported / Unemployed / Youth Please do not submit. Regulations have been amended to delegate the grant of Representation to providers. We recommend that you confirm defendants means eligibility using the online calculator Committal for Sentence Employed / self-employed / director / living off savings Please submit for assessment Appeal to Crown Court All means types Please submit for assessment Retaining Information for Audit Providers should please retain on file the information used to support their decision making, including as covered within the guidance and forms. This may be subject to audit to help us to identify where providers need additional support and to assess the effectiveness of the contingency. Where we identify that providers require additional support to accurately understand or implement the guidance, we will in the first instance work with them to provide that support, rather than take action under the contract or to recoup payment. The LAA does not intend to recoup any payments following audit, on cases where a good faith and proportionate approach has been demonstrated to implementing the contingency processes in line with the guidance. In such instances where taking contract action would be reasonable and proportionate, such as where a pattern of dishonesty is shown, this will be done based on the individual circumstances. The LAA promotes a zero-tolerance approach to fraud. Further resources FAQ Legal Aid Agency cyber security incident: frequently asked questions - GOV.UK Minister Sarah Sackman MP Oral statement: Legal Aid Agency Cyber-security incident - 19 May 2025 News Story: Legal Aid Agency data breach – 19 May 2025 LAA SILAS Help and Information LAA SILAS Help and Information - GOV.UK - 15 September 2025 Updates to this page 8 October 2025 Information about the Bulk upload spreadsheet has been added and the corresponding document has been updated. Information about the Bulk upload spreadsheet has been added and the corresponding document has been updated. 3 October 2025 Submit a Bulk Claim - replacement service for CWA has been added. Submit a Bulk Claim - replacement service for CWA has been added. 2 October 2025 The End of Enhanced Business Continuity Measures for Crime Applications has been updated. The End of Enhanced Business Continuity Measures for Crime Applications has been updated. 1 October 2025 Crime applications Restoration Of Crime Systems, The End of Enhanced Business Continuity Measures for Crime Applications, and Crime billing: Magistrates court claims (CRM7) have been updated. Crime applications Restoration Of Crime Systems, The End of Enhanced Business Continuity Measures for Crime Applications, and Crime billing: Magistrates court claims (CRM7) have been updated. 30 September 2025 Restoration of Crime Systems has been added. Restoration of Crime Systems has been added. 25 September 2025 Under Crime applications: Restoration Of Crime Systems; End of LAAs Enhanced Business Continuity Measures for Crime Applications; and Guidance on the Use of Delegated Functions, have been updated. Under Crime applications: Restoration Of Crime Systems; End of LAAs Enhanced Business Continuity Measures for Crime Applications; and Guidance on the Use of Delegated Functions, have been updated. 24 September 2025 Crime billing: Applications for Prior Authority (CRM4) and Crime billing: Applications to Extend the Upper Financial Limit (CRM5) have been updated. Crime billing: Applications for Prior Authority (CRM4) and Crime billing: Applications to Extend the Upper Financial Limit (CRM5) have been updated. 11 September 2025 Under Civil applications: High-Cost Family work, the contingency process document has been updated. Under Civil applications: High-Cost Family work, the contingency process document has been updated. 4 September 2025 Monthly Claim Submissions dates have been amended. Monthly Claim Submissions dates have been amended. 1 September 2025 Under 'Delegated functions to grant emergency funding', emergency representation period and cost limitation figures have been updated. The Table of Delegated Authorities linked to the Procedure Regulations August 2025 has also been added. Under 'Delegated functions to grant emergency funding', emergency representation period and cost limitation figures have been updated. The Table of Delegated Authorities linked to the Procedure Regulations August 2025 has also been added. 1 September 2025 Under Monthly Claim Submissions, the Contingency Monthly Contract Submission template has been updated. Under Monthly Claim Submissions, the Contingency Monthly Contract Submission template has been updated. 1 September 2025 Under Crime billing: Applications to Extend the Upper Financial Limit (CRM5), the CRM5 form has been updated. Under Crime billing: Applications to Extend the Upper Financial Limit (CRM5), the CRM5 form has been updated. 20 August 2025 Under Crime billing: Applications for Prior Authority (CRM4) section of the incident page, Expediting CRM4s information has been added. Under Crime billing: Applications for Prior Authority (CRM4) section of the incident page, Expediting CRM4s information has been added. 19 August 2025 Under the heading Crime billing: Applications to Extend the Upper Financial Limit (CRM5). The CDS5 Version 3 November 2009 form has been replaced with the CRM5. Under the heading Crime billing: Applications to Extend the Upper Financial Limit (CRM5). The CDS5 Version 3 November 2009 form has been replaced with the CRM5. 30 July 2025 Under Monthly Claim Submissions, The Contingency Monthly Contract Submission template has been updated. Under Monthly Claim Submissions, The Contingency Monthly Contract Submission template has been updated. 29 July 2025 Magistrates court through to sentence in Crown Court template has been updated. Magistrates court through to sentence in Crown Court template has been updated. 23 July 2025 Magistrates Court sentencing template and Crown Court sentencing template updated. Magistrates Court sentencing template and Crown Court sentencing template updated. 23 July 2025 The Contingency Payment Providers Guide has been updated. The Contingency Payment Providers Guide has been updated. 16 July 2025 Civil applications, Crime billing and Crime applications have been annotated. Civil applications, Crime billing and Crime applications have been annotated. 14 July 2025 The information on Passported applicants has been updated. The information on Passported applicants has been updated. 11 July 2025 Delegated functions to grant emergency funding entry has been updated. Delegated functions to grant emergency funding entry has been updated. 8 July 2025 A description for the civil average payment process for escalation has been added. A description for the civil average payment process for escalation has been added. 2 July 2025 Added Contempt of Court (CRM CLAIM 11), Prison Law Exceptional Case Claims (CRM18A) and additional point to the Applications for Prior Authority (CRM4) section. Added Contempt of Court (CRM CLAIM 11), Prison Law Exceptional Case Claims (CRM18A) and additional point to the Applications for Prior Authority (CRM4) section. 2 July 2025 Change to Summary only \ Either Way applications where the proceedings are taking place in the Magistrates’ Court . The Magistrates court through to sentence in Crown Court template was updated. The Crown Court sentencing template was updated. Change to Summary only \ Either Way applications where the proceedings are taking place in the Magistrates’ Court . The Magistrates court through to sentence in Crown Court template was updated. The Crown Court sentencing template was updated. 1 July 2025 Added Extradition Matters under Criminal Applications Added Extradition Matters under Criminal Applications 1 July 2025 The Legal Aid Agency Contingency Monthly Contract Submission attachment was updated. Submission date to report May CWA has changed. The Legal Aid Agency Contingency Monthly Contract Submission attachment was updated. Submission date to report May CWA has changed. 27 June 2025 Guidance has been added on various sections, please familiarise yourself with the new content of the page. Guidance has been added on various sections, please familiarise yourself with the new content of the page. 20 June 2025 High Cost Family (HCF) contingency guidance has been updated High Cost Family (HCF) contingency guidance has been updated 20 June 2025 Contingency Payment: Providers Guide and Opt-In Contingency Declaration 2025, have been updated and the supporting text amended. Contingency Payment: Providers Guide and Opt-In Contingency Declaration 2025, have been updated and the supporting text amended. 20 June 2025 Information on civil applications on Civil Prior Authority requests, has been updated. Information on civil applications on Civil Prior Authority requests, has been updated. 20 June 2025 Additional information has been added for crime applications. Additional information has been added for crime applications. 19 June 2025 Exceptional and Complex Cases Team Submission Quick Guide has been updated. Exceptional and Complex Cases Team Submission Quick Guide has been updated. 18 June 2025 Information about monthly claim submissions has been updated. Information about monthly claim submissions has been updated. 18 June 2025 Crime billing information has been updated. Crime billing information has been updated. 17 June 2025 The ECCT submission quick guide has been updated. The ECCT submission quick guide has been updated. 12 June 2025 Details on civil applications and registering High Cost Family cases, has been updated. Details on civil applications and registering High Cost Family cases, has been updated. 11 June 2025 Guidance on civil applications has been updated. Guidance on civil applications has been updated. 6 June 2025 Changes to the Contingency for Criminal Legal Aid Applications document added. Changes to the Contingency for Criminal Legal Aid Applications document added. 5 June 2025 Additional information added and page updated. Additional information added and page updated. 5 June 2025 Attached document updated. Attached document updated. 5 June 2025 Civil Bills Contingency Spreadsheet updated. Civil Bills Contingency Spreadsheet updated. 4 June 2025 Guidance document updated. Guidance document updated. 4 June 2025 information updated and CRM4 Word form added information updated and CRM4 Word form added 3 June 2025 The information on Crime Billing and Crime Lower, Legal Help and Mediation monthly submissions , has been updated. The information on Crime Billing and Crime Lower, Legal Help and Mediation monthly submissions , has been updated. 3 June 2025 Legal Aid Agency Contingency Monthly Contract Submission form added Legal Aid Agency Contingency Monthly Contract Submission form added 2 June 2025 Updated guidance. Updated guidance. 30 May 2025 Updated section 'CRM7'. Updated section 'CRM7'. 30 May 2025 Updated 'Civil applications' section. Updated 'Civil applications' section. 30 May 2025 Updated guidance. Updated guidance. 29 May 2025 Updated guidance. Updated guidance. 28 May 2025 Information on average payments for civil representation scheme published which includes a provider guide and Opt-in declaration form. Information on average payments for civil representation scheme published which includes a provider guide and Opt-in declaration form. 22 May 2025 First published. First published. Sign up for emails or print this page Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab ) .