Our Story Our Story × John Stone OBE Founder and Chairman The Stone Family Foundation was established in 2005 by John Stone OBE and his wife, Vanessa, following the sale of the business which he founded in 1991. John, an entrepreneur with a successful 40-year career in financial services, is the Chair of the Foundation. The Foundation is proud to have an approach which is radically different to that of many other charities and foundations. Inspired by John’s experience and expertise in the world of business and financial services, our vision is to be a pioneering, innovative and disruptive influence, constantly in search of new and better ways to solve entrenched problems. In the early years the Foundation funded a range of mental health, education for girls, water and sanitation, and microfinance projects, both in the UK and overseas. Following a strategic review in 2010, we decided to focus sharply on: Water to the home in Africa and Asia, with a specific focus on enterprises and the transformational role market-based solutions can play in this sector. Around 80% of our funding is committed to water Two UK portfolios; mental health , and disadvantaged youth . Together, these portfolios account for roughly 20% of the Foundation’s funding. Since 2005, we have committed over £72m and currently support over 70 organisations in Africa, Asia and the UK. We provide funding, support and credibility to organisations capable of scaling and solving problems in new ways to accelerate positive social change. We are an engaged funder – we like to align closely with entities we support and build lasting relationships, meaning we often support them for many years and with several rounds of funding. We follow guiding principles – such as believing in the potential of entrepreneurship, and ensuring we focus on settings in which our approach is likely to have the greatest impact. But we are also flexible and aim to respond quickly to new opportunities. Our strategies to achieve this are different in each portfolio . Find out more on each portfolio’s page. Total funds disbursed since 2005 Impact investment commitments in water and sanitation Number of organisations in current portfolios Funds disbursed for Mental Health services in 2023 Number of water connections to households Funds disbursed for Disadvantaged Youth services in 2023 Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.