We provide funding , support and credibility to accelerate positive change We provide funding , support and credibility to accelerate positive change Established in 2005, The Stone Family Foundation supports innovative, sustainable, entrepreneurial solutions to major social problems. Our focus includes supporting people to access water in the home in Africa and Asia as well as UK portfolios focused on mental health and disadvantaged youth . Our focus includes supporting people to access water in the home in Africa and Asia as well as UK portfolios focused on mental health and disadvantaged youth . John Stone, SFF’s Founder and Chairman, recognised in King’s Birthday honours. The King’s annual Birthday Honours list recognises the remarkable public service of individuals from across the UK in a range of sectors. John Stone, the SFF’s Founder and Chair has been awarded the honour of ‘Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE)’ in the King’s Birthday Honours List, June 2024. The citation reads: ‘Entrepreneur. For Services to Philanthropy.’ John is a successful serial entrepreneur, but this award is in recognition of his contributions to philanthropy and reflects the dedication and energy that John brings to the SFF. John started the Foundation nearly 20 years ago following the sale of his shares in Lombard International – a business he founded in 1991. John has accepted this recognition on behalf of the SFF’s staff, partners and friends who have contributed so much to the achievements of the Foundation. John Stone, SFF’s Founder and Chairman, recognised in King’s Birthday honours. The King’s annual Birthday Honours list recognises the remarkable public service of individuals from across the UK in a range of sectors. John Stone, the SFF’s Founder and Chair has been awarded the honour of ‘Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE)’ in the King’s Birthday Honours List, June 2024. The citation reads: ‘Entrepreneur. For Services to Philanthropy.’ John is a successful serial entrepreneur, but this award is in recognition of his contributions to philanthropy and reflects the dedication and energy that John brings to the SFF. John started the Foundation nearly 20 years ago following the sale of his shares in Lombard International – a business he founded in 1991. John has accepted this recognition on behalf of the SFF’s staff, partners and friends who have contributed so much to the achievements of the Foundation. We focus on Water to the Home We focus on Disadvantaged Youth We focus on Mental Health Cambodia Revenue Finance Facility Cambodia Rural Sanitation Development Impact Bond Strategy Refresh Piped water to the home Flexible financing to scale piped water access Safe Water Network News Update × Safisana × Cambodia Rural Sanitation Development Impact Bond Year Two Report Lessons Learnt Funding WASH Enterprises Cambodia Revenue Finance Facility × Cambodia Development Impact Bond × No insights found. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.