Our Team Our Trustees John established the Stone Family Foundation in 2005, following the sale of Lombard International Assurance which he founded in 1991. John’s financial services career spans over 50 years and he is currently the Chairman of an international wealth management business. John was awarded the honour of OBE in June 2024, in recognition of his contributions to philanthropy, reflecting the dedication and energy that he brings to the Foundation. Charlie has been a Trustee of the Foundation since 2005. His career has been predominantly in private equity, where he has 14 years’ experience of backing UK-based medium-sized companies. He is also a Trustee of Impetus, The Private Equity Foundation. David has worked in international financial services most of his life, and roles have included those of CEO and Chairman. He mentors business leaders and young people, and is involved in several start ups. He has been on the SFF Board since 2015. Water to the Home Tom joined the Foundation in early 2021, with over 10 years’ experience in operations, start-up and investment roles. He previously worked at Factor[e] Ventures, looking to find and build investable ventures in the energy, agriculture and sanitation sectors to accelerate development. Before that, Tom led the country operations of BIMA in Tanzania, delivering affordable, mass-market health and insurance services using mobile technology. He started his career as a management consultant with PwC in London. Souraya joined the Stone Family Foundation in June 2017 as WASH Portfolio Manager, after having spent four years at Water and Sanitation for the Urban Poor (WSUP) where she worked in finance and donor relationship management. Prior to this, Souraya spent three years at InterAide, a French NGO, supporting its rural WASH and health programmes in Malawi. Souraya has a background in economics and finance and started her career as a financial auditor. Kathryn joined the Foundation as Enterprise Development Manager in November 2019. Kathryn previously spent five years working for Baringa Partners, a global management consultancy, which helps business run more efficiently, navigate industry shifts and reach new markets. During this time, she worked within retail and network businesses in the UK energy and water industry. Prior to this Kathryn delivered projects for social enterprises in the energy and WASH sector across Africa, Haiti and Cambodia, as a consultant for Whitten & Roy Partnership, a sales performance and management consultancy. Ben joined the Foundation in April 2024 as Investment Manager, having spent five years in advisory and consulting roles at PwC. Ben has three years of corporate finance experience, providing commercial, financial, and strategic advice to private and public sector clients. He also has two years of sustainability consulting experience, where he focused on supporting low carbon projects in emerging economies to access finance Rachel joined the Foundation in April 2024 through the On Purpose Associate Program. A former attorney turned advocate for positive change, she brings over a decade of experience as an energy and natural resources lawyer, with her career spanning continents from Indonesia to the UK. Her dedication to ethical resource development has been a guiding principle throughout. Now, as a sustainability strategist, she focuses on advancing sustainability through impact investment and catalysing systems change. Monica joined us as Head of Finance and Operations in April 2025. Monica has had an extensive career in the UK’s voluntary sector as a finance and operations manager. Prior to this, she worked within financial services as a business analyst and project manager, leading developments for both front and back office. She started her career as a programmer/analyst with Cap Gemini, and was involved in a number of projects for large corporate organisations spanning various sectors. Mental Health & Disadvantaged Youth Our advisors for the Foundation’s Mental Health and Disadvantaged Youth portfolios are NPC . NPC is the think tank and consultancy for the social sector. Their mission is to help charities, foundations, philanthropists, impact investors, social enterprises, corporates, and the public sector to maximise social impact in the lives of the people they serve. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.