Website Privacy & Cookies Notice The Stone Family Foundation is committed to protecting your privacy. This privacy notice sets out the information we collect from our website and what we do with it. How do we collect information? We collect information when you: Contact us by email, written correspondence or call us Visit our website What do we do with the information we collect? We use information you directly supply to us by email or via other correspondence to: Respond to enquiries and carry out the day to day business of the foundation In addition, we use anonymised data from Google Analytics to: Understand how people use our website Understand and improve our marketing and website offering Google Analytics We use a third-party service called Google Analytics to collect standard information on visitor behaviour patterns. We do this to understand the numbers of visitors to various parts of the site, how our marketing campaigns perform and to identify areas where we could improve the website. This information collected cannot be used to identify you. We also use Google Analytics Demographics and Interest Reporting which is based upon data from Google display advertising. Here we use anonymised aggregate data provided by this service (such as age range and gender) to better understand our website audience and adjust our communications appropriately. Links to other websites Please note that where we provide links to other websites we’re not responsible for the content or the privacy settings of those sites. Data retention Emails or other correspondence with us are kept on file to respond to further questions as a normal part of conducting our business. Within Google Analytics we do not collect any information that can be used to identify you. Google uses a cookie ID number to calculate unique users to our site – this data item is retained for 26 months within our Google Analytics account. Changes to this policy We’ll keep this policy up to date – the contents of which may change over time. How to Contact Us For any questions please either email us at sff@thinkNPC.org or write to us at: The Stone Family Foundation, WeWork SouthBank, 22 Upper Ground, London SE1 9PD. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.