Cookies in use on this site Our website uses cookies to help provide you with the best experience we can. Cookies are small text files that are placed on your computer or mobile phone when you browse websites. They cannot be used to identify you personally. This site uses session cookies . Session cookies enable the website you are visiting to keep track of your movement from page to page so you don’t get asked for the same information you’ve already given to the site. Cookies allow you to proceed through many pages of a site quickly and easily without having to authenticate or reprocess each new area you visit. Our cookies help us: Make our website work as you’d expect Remember your settings during and between visits Remember your settings during and between visits Improve the speed/security of the site We do not use cookies to: Make our website work as you’d expect Remember your settings during and between visits Remember your settings during and between visits Improve the speed/security of the site Granting us permission to use cookies If the settings on your software that you are using to view this website (your browser) are adjusted to accept cookies we take this, and your continued use of our website, to mean that you are fine with this. Should you wish to remove or not use cookies from our site you can learn how to do this below, however doing so will likely mean that our site will not work as you would expect. Data retention Emails or other correspondence with us are kept on file to respond to further questions as a normal part of conducting our business. Within Google Analytics we do not collect any information that can be used to identify you. Google uses a cookie ID number to calculate unique users to our site – this data item is retained for 26 months within our Google Analytics account. More about our cookies This website is built using the WordPress CMS, and uses cookies which are detailed below. COOKIE NAME DATA STORED WHEN DOES IT EXPIRE? DESCRIPTION PHPSESSID A random unique number or string of letters and numbers. The cookie is deleted when you close your web browser. As you browse around the pages on this site, the session cookie tells the website that you are the same person requesting the web pages, and not a new visitor to each page. This cookie does not identify you personally and is not linked to any other information we store about you. comment_author, comment_author_email Your name and email address Persistent cookies, which expire a little under one year from the time they’re set. WordPress sets these cookies purely for convenience, so that you won’t need to re-type all your information again when you want to leave another comment. This data is not used for any other purpose. There is no way to prevent these cookies being set other than to not use our site. COOKIE NAME WHEN DOES IT EXPIRE? DESCRIPTION _ga 2 years Used to distinguish users. _gid 24 hours Used to distinguish users. _gat 1 minute Used to throttle request rate. If Google Analytics is deployed via Google Tag Manager, this cookie will be named _dc_gtm_<property-id>. AMP_TOKEN 30 seconds to 1 year Contains a token that can be used to retrieve a Client ID from AMP Client ID service. Other possible values indicate opt-out, inflight request or an error retrieving a Client ID from AMP Client ID service. _gac_<property-id> 90 days Contains campaign related information for the user. If you have linked your Google Analytics and Google Ads accounts, Google Ads website conversion tags will read this cookie unless you opt-out. Learn more . Further information is available in the WordPress Codex . COOKIES FOR GOOGLE ANALYTICS Cookies for other third-party sites Our website may include links to other third-party websites, plug-ins and applications. Clicking on those links or enabling those connections may allow third parties to collect or share data about you. We do not control these third-party websites and are not responsible for their privacy statements. When you leave our website, we encourage you to read the privacy notice of every website you visit. Turning cookies off You can switch cookies off by adjusting your browser settings to stop it from accepting cookies ( learn how here ). Doing so however will likely limit the functionality of our’s and a large proportion of the world’s websites as cookies are a standard part of most modern websites. Similarly, you can set up your browser to disable JavaScript – please see your browser’s help pages for instructions on how to do this. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.