MajiFund The MajiFund Pilot is a $5m programme providing post-acceleration support for WASH Enterprises in Kenya, Uganda and Ghana, delivered by CEWAS and Vox Impuls . They aim to prove the concept of a post-acceleration facility and develop mechanisms for small scale post-acceleration investments, with a focus on recyclable high-risk repayable finance, technical assistance, and catalytic grants. The Stone Family Foundation have provided a grant to support the MajiFund pilot over three years, specifically to support Piped Water Enterprises access post-acceleration finance and technical support. Our support to the MajiFund aims to test firstly the ability of Piped Water Enterprises in Africa to scale beyond grant funding and move towards scale up debt/equity funding. Secondly, we aim to test the ability of a post-acceleration facility such as the MajiFund to support the growth of Piped Water Enterprises with a recycled fund, and the ability for it to fill a key financing gap for enterprises between small scale grants and larger philanthropic growth capital. PREVIOUS Sonic Fresh NEXT Challenge Fund Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.