Mental Health The Foundation has supported charities working in the mental health sector since 2008. In 2023, we refreshed our strategy for our Mental Health portfolio. Our new strategic priorities have been informed by changes in the needs of people seeking mental health support since we last reviewed our strategy in 2019. The new strategy for the period 2024-2027 focuses on charities delivering early intervention approaches to tackling mental health difficulties, with a primary focus on children and young people’s mental health. We know that children and young people are one of the groups whose mental health has been particularly impacted by Covid-19 and the cost of living crisis, and we think this presents a useful opportunity to align our Mental Health portfolio more closely with the work delivered by charities in our Disadvantaged Youth portfolio. We also know that the majority of mental health difficulties surface in childhood and adolescence, but that it can be difficult to secure funding for preventative initiatives working with younger age groups. We will also maintain some grant support for specialist areas of work with high-risk groups, including support for people with eating disorders, and mental health support for survivors of domestic violence. The portfolio supports a range of work at the local and national level, delivered by charities with an income of between £500k-£3m. We are particularly keen to support organisations with a strong focus on impact measurement, that can demonstrate positive outcomes, and that mainly focus on frontline delivery. Each year, the Foundation provides a total of around £1,000,000 in grants to organisations within this portfolio. Most grants support core costs and are often multi-year commitments. The Foundation does not have a grant application process, and searches proactively for opportunities meeting our priorities where funding could make a difference. SWEDA Stem4 Blue Smile Employers’ Initiative on Domestic Abuse The Cellar Trust Bipolar UK The Listening Place Beat Mosaic Clubhouse Moving towards equality in an unequal world Digital services: How to connect in a time of crisis Mental health in the UK: From awareness to action? Resources Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.