I am a Company Having your own company fund is an exciting, powerful – and noticeable – way of making your local area better. We often work with the “unsung” and “unseen” charities – on your doorstep, hidden, yet making a huge difference to the quality of life of people who live and work in your area. There is a whole range of organisations delivering essential help for communities in Leicester, Leicestershire and Rutland; all in need of vital funds. We work to understand your charitable aims and help match you to current grant requests that you can support through your charitable fund. It’s very much like a standalone charitable foundation: you decide where you want to make a difference (we can help) and when and how you want to give money. We can help you fit it to your social and environmental goals, or your Corporate Social Responsibility aims. A named fund can be set up with £5k or more. We can’t run your fundraising for you, however, once you are ready to make grants, we’re ready to support you. We manage two types of donor fund: Endowment: donations are invested for charitable income in perpetuity. Invested funds offer stability and longevity – they are invaluable for local communities. We ask for a small contribution to operating costs of 5% per donation and 1-3% per annum. Spend-down: donations are spent entirely within a timescale; an immediate way of supporting the local area. We ask for a contribution to operating costs of 10—15%. Combined funds: These include both an endowment element and a spend-down element to the balance of your choosing – 50/50, 60/40 – you decide. Our Making Local Life Better fund is where local groups can apply for financial support for projects and essential running costs for the work they deliver. If you would like to make a smaller donation, anything up to £5k goes into our general Making Local Life Better Fund. You can donate via the page link below. You can rest assured knowing that your money will stay local and help local, and still make a huge difference on your doorstep. We monitor investments and we are audited annually and Quality Accredited every three years. To find out more about setting up your own named fund, please contact: admin@llrcommunityfoundation.org.uk