I am a Professional Advisor As a Professional Advisor, you’ll come across people who really want to make a difference and give back to their local communities. If you are an advisor or an individual looking to give with impact, navigating the charitable sector and finding organisations to work with can be overwhelming. The Community Foundation offers support to anyone qualified to advise or support clients on decisions regarding investment, money management or charitable giving. We know the organisations and the communities, the challenges and needs in Leicester, Leicestershire and Rutland. Whether your client wants to help reduce homelessness, better mental health, recover our environment and wildlife, support older people, encourage access to arts, sports and leisure – anything that makes local life better for all – there will probably be a local charity, voluntary or community group working to make that change. We give grants to all these organisations and more and can provide your clients with a range of options where their money will make a significant impact. Not only do grants have a substantial positive impact on communities now, if they set up an invested fund they will continue long into the future. The first step taken by people who want to give is to seek professional advice, so it is important for us to make sure that advisors to businesses, families and individuals are familiar with our services. Together, we can ensure that your clients get the best advice and a range of cost-effective giving options. We take time (free of charge) to listen and understand your client’s needs. We make the giving process simple and stress free. With years of grant making experience and using our knowledge and networks, we can help your clients to meet their philanthropic aspirations. We’re always happy to help so if you would like more information or to talk to us about what we do, please do get in touch with us. admin@llrcommunityfoundation.org.uk / Useful Links and Downloads: What we’ve funded – Our case study pages highlight (with pictures) some of the amazing projects funded by our donors Grants Summary 2022/23 – All projects funded in this year