Apply for a Grant We manage a range of grant-giving funds for families, individuals, and local companies. Our small grant programmes match our individual donor’s passions and interests with the grassroots projects that work at making local life better within their communities. In addition, we manage local and national grant programmes. If you are unsure at any stage of your application or if you would like to be included on our funding circulation list, please contact the Grant Team via grants@llrcommunityfoundation.org.uk SWEF exists to support those who cannot afford to invest in their own businesses or face difficulties raising money externally, see https://www.swef.uk/ SWEF believes For community projects and local charities which support employment skills, opportunities and social mobility in Derbyshire or Nottinghamshire or Leicestershire/Rutland Fund Aims Market Harborough Building Society is committed to making a positive difference in the communities they serve. We’re thrilled to announce our partnership Fund Aims The Making Local Life Better Fund is made up of money from private donor grant-giving funds that the Community Foundation manages. Donors’ These are links to information, resources support organisations or other funders and are managed externally. Links to Support Organisations Support for Leicester City Groupshttps://www.leicester.gov.uk/your-council/city-mayor-peter-soulsby/communities/vcse-strategy-infrastructure-support-needs/ A new funding round is opening for 2025. Applications will be accepted from 1st January 2025 and be considered on a rolling basis throughout SWEF exists to support those who cannot afford to invest in their own businesses or face difficulties raising money externally, see https://www.swef.uk/ SWEF believes SWEF exists to support those who cannot afford to invest in their own businesses or face difficulties raising money externally, see https://www.swef.uk/ SWEF believes For community projects and local charities which support employment skills, opportunities and social mobility in Derbyshire or Nottinghamshire or Leicestershire/Rutland For community projects and local charities which support employment skills, opportunities and social mobility in Derbyshire or Nottinghamshire or Leicestershire/Rutland Fund Aims Market Harborough Building Society is committed to making a positive difference in the communities they serve. We’re thrilled to announce our partnership Fund Aims Market Harborough Building Society is committed to making a positive difference in the communities they serve. We’re thrilled to announce our partnership Fund Aims The Making Local Life Better Fund is made up of money from private donor grant-giving funds that the Community Foundation manages. Donors’ Fund Aims The Making Local Life Better Fund is made up of money from private donor grant-giving funds that the Community Foundation manages. Donors’ These are links to information, resources support organisations or other funders and are managed externally. Links to Support Organisations Support for Leicester City Groupshttps://www.leicester.gov.uk/your-council/city-mayor-peter-soulsby/communities/vcse-strategy-infrastructure-support-needs/ These are links to information, resources support organisations or other funders and are managed externally. Links to Support Organisations Support for Leicester City Groupshttps://www.leicester.gov.uk/your-council/city-mayor-peter-soulsby/communities/vcse-strategy-infrastructure-support-needs/ A new funding round is opening for 2025. Applications will be accepted from 1st January 2025 and be considered on a rolling basis throughout A new funding round is opening for 2025. Applications will be accepted from 1st January 2025 and be considered on a rolling basis throughout Our Current Grants SWEF Enterprise Fund Efficiency East Midlands Foundation – CLOSED Market Harborough Building Society Community Fund – Opening Winter 2025 Making Local Life Better Fund – CLOSED (Opening 20th October 9am) Information, Resources, Support and Other Funders The Richard Bonney Literary Fund – OPEN