Set up a Grant Giving Fund Why Set Up a Grant Giving Fund with the Community Foundation? A Grant Giving Fund will be your personally named charitable fund – like your own standalone charitable foundation, but with much less work and expense for you. You choose the impact of your money – we support you to ensure your grant giving goes to the challenges you want to address. You choose the type of Fund you want – An endowment fund ensures regular, ongoing “futureproofed” income for local communities. A “spend-down” fund will have an immediate impact. You may choose to do both. ­ Checks and balances – We undertake thorough assessment and due diligence with all grant applications. Knowledge and networks – You choose the needs and challenges that you want to help change using our local knowledge developed through years of grant giving experience. We work hard to reach all local charitable groups working effectively to mitigate local needs. Quality Accredited – We are Quality Accredited and part of a national network of independent community foundations. Cost-Effective –We manage all the financial, monitoring and reporting administration on your behalf, very affordably. Positive Partnerships – We work with other charitable organisations delivering essential work in local communities and a range of people including families, individuals, companies, agencies and the public sector. Gift Aid on all donations – Gift Aid is claimed on all private donations which means your gift goes further. Your legacy to your local world – If you wish to create a charitable fund as your legacy in your will or set up a memorial fund, we can work with your professional advisors to support you. Local Businesses – We also work with local businesses to support them with their Environmental, Social and Governance Goals and Corporate Social Responsibility aims. If you’re thinking about setting up a fund or you’d like to know more, we’re always here to help and answer your questions. Please do get in touch with Katy Green ( katy.green@llrcommunityfoundation.org.uk ) What improvements to local life do you, your family or your staff want to see? Whether you want to reduce homelessness, develop better mental health, recover our environment and wildlife, support older people – anything that makes local life better for all – there will probably be a local charity, voluntary of community group working to make that change. We will set you up an inexpensive charitable fund of your own– like a charitable foundation, personally named and directed by you– to give grants to groups to progress their work. Unlike many grantmaking bodies we really work to understand what local groups are doing and why, to check and assess projects you fund, and track the spend of all grants. We can help you understand the local area, its more hidden needs and quieter work. We manage money, and all charitable reporting requirements, leaving you free to make good changes – to individual lives and, with thought, generosity and consistency, to whole local challenges. I want to leave a legacy or set up a legacy fund I want to set up a memorial fund I am an individual or family I am a company I know a dormant or inactive charitable trust which needs revitalising I am a Professional Advisor I am or want to be a member of Women in Philanthropy (WiP)