Trustees Lady Wolfson of Marylebone OBE (Chairman) Since 1991, Lady Wolfson has, with her late husband, Lord Wolfson, been one of the UK’s leading philanthropists. Lady Wolfson is a fellow of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, King’s College, London, University College, London, the Ashmolean, Oxford, Imperial College, London and the Royal Albert Hall, an Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians 2018, and an Honorary Doctorate of Law at Liverpool University 2023. Lady Wolfson is Patron of the Royal College of Surgeons, a Member of Cancer Research UK and has held trusteeships at the Royal College of Physicians, the Royal Society of Medicine and the Global eHealth Foundation and was a member of the Lord Major’s Appeal Committee, The Red Cross International & Scientific Committee and the Campaign for Institute of Physics, Chair of the Committee for Great Ormond Street Children’s Hospital. Lady Wolfson is a Liveryman of the Worshipful Company of Apothecaries, Honorary President of Hadassah Hospital, Jerusalem and was awarded Freedom of the City of London in 2013. Lady Wolfson has established ‘The Lord Leonard and Lady Estelle Wolfson Foundation’ for preventative medicine and other causes with a legacy from her late husband, Lord Wolfson. In the 2025 New Year Honours, Lady Wolfson, was awarded the honour of the Order of the British Empire (OBE), Philanthropist for Services to Medical Research and to the Arts. Professor Sir Ian Gilmore Professor Sir Ian Gilmore is an honorary consultant physician at the Royal Liverpool University Hospital. He is currently chairman of Liverpool Health Partners, an organisation set up between the University and the teaching hospitals in Liverpool to promote an Academic Health Science Network in order to foster academic innovation, education and service development in the region. His specialty interest is liver disease. He is currently chairing a commission on health and healthcare in Liverpool at the request of the city’s elected mayor. He is the immediate past-president of the Royal College of Physicians (RCP) and is currently president of the British Society of Gastroenterology. He has particular interest in harms related to alcohol misuse and the role of regulation in reducing this. He chaired a RCP Working Party in 2001, producing the report “Alcohol – can the NHS afford it? A blueprint for a coherent alcohol strategy”. He chairs the UK Alcohol Health Alliance in which relevant agencies work together in a coherent and focused framework. He has also been appointed as Chair of the European Alcohol and Health Forum Science Group and is a member of the Climate and Health Council. He is also a member of the National Quality Board. He is a Deputy Lieutenant of Merseyside and received a knighthood in the Queen’s Birthday Honours in 2010. Ian Burman Ian Burman is the Head of the National Private Client and Not for Profit Team at Laytons which he formed in 1989 on joining the firm. He was made a Partner shortly thereafter. He is a co-author of Tolley’s Administration of Estates and a regular writer and lecturer on a range of national and international private client and charity issues. He is the former Chairman of the London Central Branch of the Society of Trust and Estate Practitioners and sat on many of that body’s working groups. He represented one of the defendants in Re Yorke, Stone v Chataway the landmark case on the administration of the estates of deceased Lloyds Names. He is a trustee of numerous charities but specialises in particular in the fields of medical research and environmental issues. Professor Roger Kirby MA MD FRCS (Urol) Roger Kirby is the immediate past President of the Royal Society of Medicine. He was educated at Berkhamsted School in Hertfordshire, St John’s College, Cambridge and the Middlesex Hospital, London. He qualified as a doctor with a distinction in surgery in 1975. He was appointed as a consultant to St Bartholomew’s Hospital in 1986, moving 10 years later to St George’s Hospital, London SW17. During the latter part of his 30-year NHS career he was awarded a Chair of Urology in 2001 and was Director of Postgraduate Medical Education. He created, and was Director of, a thriving Urology Research Unit at St George’s and pioneered one of the first courses on patient safety there. Professor Kirby was among the first in the UK to introduce radical surgery for prostate cancer and minimally invasive treatments including robot-assisted prostate surgery. Among his many pioneering initiatives has been the creation of The Prostate Centre in Wimpole St. Professor Kirby was founder and Chairman of the charity Prostate UK/Prostate Action for 13 years, and continues to serve as Vice-President for Prostate Cancer UK. He is also a founding member and now President of The Urology Foundation (TUF). Antoinette Jackson Lady Wolfson’s daughter, Antoinette Jackson, has worked alongside her on many varied projects connected with medical research and wellbeing. She has been at Sotheby’s auction house for over 25 years, from the time the Hermitage opened up its collection, in the Impressionist, Modern and Contemporary art departments, working on restitution cases, as a valuation manager for major collections, arranging loans for exhibitions and in the Chairman’s office in business development. In 2002 she gained her fellowship of the GAGTL with distinction (FGA) and was awarded the Anderson Medal and Trade Prize. In 2004 she gained her DGA and became a Diamond member of the GAGTL with merit. Edward Jackson Edward has a wealth of City experience spanning law, investment banking and investment disciplines. He is currently employed at Pictet Group, a Swiss private bank, where he is responsible for UK Real Estate Investments for the bank’s value-add and core+ property strategies. He joined Pictet in 2019 and has made a number of investments in logistics, residential and office sectors. Prior to Pictet, he was a Vice President at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, where he worked for nine years in mergers & acquisitions, and debt and equity capital markets. He acted for public companies and private equity funds in real estate, consumer beverage, healthcare and media industries across Western Europe. Edward previously trained and qualified as a corporate lawyer at Clifford Chance, and also worked at Taylor Wessing and Weil Gotshal. In his eight years’ experience as a lawyer, he worked in London, Tokyo and New York. Edward has advised pro bono at Battersea Legal Advice Centre, and is currently a mentor for Fairfield Enterprise, a charity providing specialist careers coaching to undergraduates from disadvantaged backgrounds. Edward holds an LLB degree in Laws from University College London, and an MBA from INSEAD, where he was an IFS/Henry Grunfeld Scholar.