Our Grants Small Grants You can apply if : Your organisation’s postcode falls within the following on the Indices of Multiple Deprivation : if you are located in an urban area, you must be in the bottom 15% most deprived areas if you are located in a rural area, you must be in the bottom 50% most deprived areas if you are located in an urban area, you must be in the bottom 15% most deprived areas if you are located in a rural area, you must be in the bottom 50% most deprived areas Your project has a focus on community support Your annual income does not exceed £250,000 You can secure 50% of the total project costs You can supply your most recent annual accounts You can start spending our grant within 1-2 months of receipt You are embedded in your local community You can apply for a maximum of 50% of the total cost of the project/salary/core running costs . We do not fund capital projects. Our preference is for front line organisations working directly with people in need. We do not support campaigning, organisational development or capacity building. We will consider new work if it is a logical extension of existing work, but do not support work which represents a significant shift away from your existing core aims and experience. Please see ‘ Who and What We Fund ’ for examples and also a full list of exclusions. Successful applicants can re-apply for a further two years. No further applications can be made after the completion of the third grant. Ready to apply? Please read our Small Grants Funding Guidelines before proceeding to complete the eligibility quiz. The quiz will tell you whether your organisation is broadly eligible to apply for a Small Grant, however, please refer to the Funding Guidelines for a full list of exclusions. Our Small Grants Application Guidance contains detailed information about the application form questions. Notes You can only apply for one grant at a time i.e. you cannot apply for two different costs at the same time, whether to the same or different grants programmes. We expect beneficiaries of grants for salaries, core costs, running or project costs to start spending the grant we make within one to two months of the award being made. Please therefore do not apply too far in advance of the time when you need the funding, as your application is very likely to be unsuccessful. Hints and tips