Find out more about cookies , including how to see what cookies have been set and how to manage and delete them. You are here Home News Local groups supporting older residents awarded new community funding Date published: 2025-10-01 | Category: Communities and volunteering , community contribution fund , Delivering for local residents , Focusing on prevention , Improving people's lives , Wellbeing support Eight community projects that support the wellbeing of older people have been awarded a total of £7,500 from the Community Contribution Fund, Bath & North East Somerset Council announced today on the International Day of Older People (October 1). Grants of £500 or £1,000 were made available through the fund for new projects that both reduce inequality and primarily benefit people over the age of 55. The aim of the latest round of funding was to help organisations get a new activity off the ground, or take an existing activity to a different area within Bath and North East Somerset with a view to these becoming self-sustaining. The Community Contribution Fund enables residents to make voluntary donations to support local communities and reduce inequalities across the district. A cross-party panel of elected members assessed the applications and grants have been awarded to the following organisations: £500 to The Parlour Shop in Wellow to support them in providing free hot drinks to older residents and help reduce loneliness by encouraging them to stay and chat. £1,000 to Café Concerts CIO to support them in holding ten performances for residents and their families at Cedar Park Care Home in Oldfield Park. £1,000 to BANES Digital Drive to help over 55’s in Bath and North East Somerset to access recycled digital devices and to support the development of their partnership working on digital inclusion in this area. £1,000 to local charities We Get It ; We Hear You and Dorothy House to support a series of research based, in person events across B&NES to help raise awareness of their services to those living with and beyond cancer, as well as identifying any gaps in provision. £1,000 to Age UK BANES to support the development of the BANES Older People’s Voice group including member-led events and activities. £1,000 to the Golden Oldies to help establish new ‘Sing & Smile’ groups in Peasedown St John and Twerton. £1,000 to Time Bank Plus to support access and other improvements to their allotments at Bath City Farm so they can promote these to older users and the less mobile. £1,000 to The Bath Shed to help with the cost of the professional services they will need, such as electricians, for their new location at Bath City Farm. Councillor Mark Elliott, cabinet member for Resources said: “We are grateful to residents for their continued support of this fund which is always used to enable projects that help reduce inequality to flourish. Every penny donated to the Community Contribution Fund supports local projects to improve people’s lives, particularly those in our most disadvantaged communities. “For the latest round, we had a particular focus on our older residents and are delighted to be able to announce the recipients on the International Day of Older People. It’s crucial that we raise awareness of opportunities and challenges faced by ageing populations and support the wider community to address the difficulties they face.” The Community Contribution Fund will re-open again in 2026 when sufficient funds have been generated. Contributions to the fund are purely voluntary and separate to residents’ Council Tax contributions. The minimum contribution is £5, however there is no maximum contribution and residents can donate more than once. To find out more, or to make a contribution visit the Community Contribution Fund webpage. ENDS Share this page Two environmental community projects in B&NES awarded £128,000 funding Bath and North East Somerset celebrates Armed Forces Day with flag raising ceremony Summer series of Area Forums Second World War veteran from Bath celebrates 100th birthday in style Get our weekly email newsletter Join Here