#one in six Our impact We are proud to support the impressive work of these organisations across three key areas of mental health support. Helping to build young people’s resilience to cope with life’s challenges. Helping more young people access personalised mental health support when they need it, especially for those with depression and anxiety. Supporting research into the prevention of mental illness amongst young people and the effectiveness of early interventions. Prevention Helping to build young people’s resilience to cope with life’s challenges. OnSide is a national charity determined to make sure that all young people have the opportunity to shine, the chance to discover their passion and their purpose. The Prince’s Trust is a youth charity that helps young people get into jobs, education and training. Oxfordshire Youth supports local youth organisations and young people with training, advocacy, advice, and networking. IntoUniversity run 34 local learning centres across the UK where young people are inspired to achieve their potential. Student Minds, is the UK’s student mental health charity, working across the four nations both online and in person. OnSide is the national charity behind a growing Network of Youth Zones – state of the art youth centres for young people. Improved Support Helping more young people access personalised mental health support when they need it, especially for those with depression and anxiety. Core Arts is a mental health creative education centre based in Hackney, East London. Place2Be is a children’s mental health charity with over 25 years’ experience working with pupils, families and staff in schools across the UK. Young Minds’ mission is to make sure all young people can get the mental health support they need, when they need it. The Listening Place offers free, confidential and face-to-face listening appointments to people who feel that life is no longer worth living. The Mix is the UK’s leading digital charity for under 25s, reaching over 6 million young people every year. Create delivers creative arts workshops across the UK that connect, empower, inspire and upskill. Dulwich Picture Gallery and the Tessa Jowell Health Centre are delivering an innovative participatory arts programme in a clinical environment. Jigsaw4u uses counsellors and therapists to support children, young people and families who are experiencing complex social and emotional difficulties in South West London. The Anna Freud Centre is a world leading mental health charity for children, young people and their families. Groundwork London is an established, well-respected charity, delivering a range of services, related to social and environmental regeneration. Young Roots is supporting young refugees and asylum seekers in London, offering intensive casework, therapeutic support, youth and sporting activities, and legal advice. Body & Soul offer evidence-based, holistic support to people who have suffered childhood adversity and trauma, from their base in Islington. Dose of Nature aims to improve the mental health and wellbeing of individuals through increased engagement with the natural world. Empire Fighting Chance supports young people through their Boxing Therapy programme. The Music Works uses music to support young people who are living in challenging circumstances. Comics Youth is a Merseyside and Wirral based youth-led organisation focused on delivering comics-based literacy, publishing and wellbeing projects. Designs in Mind is an arts studio providing a creative therapeutic outlet to people with mental health difficulties in Shropshire. OTR (Off The Record) is a hub providing relaxed spaces where young people can learn about mental health and take part in arts, sports and nature related activities. Understanding What Works Supporting research into the prevention of mental illness amongst young people and the effectiveness of early interventions. We fund research to advance the understanding of depression and anxiety in children and young people, and of what works in the areas of prevention and early intervention. We would like our funding to make a real-life difference to young people with mental health conditions and so we favour projects that have a realistic pathway from research to implementation. We believe that a larger community of talented researchers is needed to achieve our aim of advancing mental health research, so we are also supporting individuals who have the potential to do transformational work by offering them an early-mid career research fellowship that will help them build their research portfolio and leadership skills. Our research grants and fellowships are delivered in partnership with UK universities that have a strong commitment to improving the mental health of children and young people. We are currently working with the following universities: University of Bristol | University of Oxford | University College London | King’s College London MQ champions and funds research into mental health that will change millions of lives. Research grants delivered in partnership with UK universities. Supporting youth mental health researchers. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Why mental health? What we fund Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Who we are Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Contact Us Privacy Overview Cookie Notice Website Statistics Cookie Policy This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. More information about our Cookie Policy