#one in six Why young people’s mental health? Despite this, the NHS is only able to support about one-third of those children and young people in need 3 . Young people from marginalized or disadvantaged groups find access an even greater challenge. 3x There has been an upward trend in the need for youth mental health services over the past decade. The number of young people arriving in A&E with a mental health problem has tripled since 2010 4 . One in four 11 to 16-year-olds with a mental disorder had self-harmed or attempted suicide 5 . 35% Referrals to children’s mental health services in 2019/20 were up 35% compared to the year before 6 . We are interested in supporting projects which seek to address both the long-term trend of increasing need as well as the effects of Covid on young people’s mental health. Social Prescribing Non-pharmaceutical interventions, such as those connected to creativity and the arts – often known as social prescribing – can have a huge impact on the positive mental health of young people. There is a growing recognition that social prescribing can lead to a range of positive health and wellbeing outcomes, including reducing levels of depression. The Prudence Trust supports research into this approach as well as support the organisations who are delivering social interventions in partnership with local healthcare providers. References 1 NHS Digital (2021): ‘Mental Health of Children and Young People in England 2021’. Available at: https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-information 2 Mental Health Foundation. Kessler et al, (2005). Lifetime Prevalence and Age-of-Onset Distributions of DSM-IV Disorders in the National Comorbidity Survey Replication. Archives of General Psychiatry: https://www.mentalhealth.org.uk/statistics/ 3 NHS: https://www.england.nhs.uk/mental-health/ 4 NHS Digital / The Independent (January 2020) ‘Number of children admitted to A&E with mental health problems jumps 330 per cent over past decade’. Available at: https://www.independent.co.uk/news/health 5 NHA Digital: https://digital.nhs.uk/news/2018/ 6 Childrens’ Commissioner The State of Childrens’ Mental Health Services 2020-21: https://www.childrenscommissioner.gov.uk/ 7 National Library of Medicine: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ I feel inspired to give a voice to other young people by sharing my experiences living with chronic mental ill health, and my own healing through creative pursuits. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Why mental health? What we fund Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Who we are Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Contact Us Privacy Overview Cookie Notice Website Statistics Cookie Policy This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. More information about our Cookie Policy