#one in six Information for grantees Grant Terms and Conditions If you are offered a grant by the Prudence Trust, you will receive a Grant Agreement letter outlining what the grant is for, the amount, funding period, and any associated conditions. This will be accompanied by our Grant Terms and Conditions . You should confirm that you wish to accept our grant as soon as possible by returning the declaration form that is attached to your Grant Agreement letter. Grant Payments Grants will be paid after we have received your signed declaration form and confirmed your bank details. One-year grants or the first year of a multi-year grant will typically be paid towards the start of your Grant Period. We make grant payments every other month and will schedule your payment for the next available payment run. Future payments will be made annually from that date (unless agreed otherwise) and are subject to satisfactory reporting. Reporting We ask all grant holders to keep us updated via regular reporting. We value openness and want to hear about problems as well as successes. We use these reports in several ways, including to learn from your work, to meet our own due diligence responsibilities, and to determine whether your grant period or payment schedule needs adapting. We would like you to complete an online form which is personalised to you and your grant. We will send you a link to the online form shortly before your report is due. You can use the Word versions of the form below to plan your answers in advance if you wish. Interim progress report form – send these to us every six months during your grant period. Final report form – send this to us within three months of the end of your grant period. Acknowledging support If you have a current grant with us and wish to acknowledge the support of the Prudence Trust by name or include us in a list of supporters in any publicity, display or documentation, please do so. If, however, you’d like to add a further description of the Trust, or its activities, or to include us in a press release, please get in touch with your grant contact for approval in advance. Download the Prudence Trust logo Contact If you have a current grant with us, you can email your grant contact directly or get in touch via grants@theprudencetrust.org Having worked in mental health for many years, I know the importance of getting evidence on what works, and doesn’t, to enable people to cope with and overcome the debilitating effects of mental ill health. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Why mental health? What we fund Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Who we are Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Contact Us Privacy Overview Cookie Notice Website Statistics Cookie Policy This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. More information about our Cookie Policy