Cookies Policy Most websites you visit will use some form of cookies to track you and improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. If you want to know more about cookies, or how to control or delete them, then we recommend you visit the About Cookies website for detailed guidance. What cookies does this site use? The information below describes the cookies we use on the Prudence Trust website and what we use them for. Currently, we use a opt-in / opt-out consent method which means that we provide a cookie consent notice when arriving at the website with the option to amend your settings or accepting the default. If you are not happy with our consent method then you should either not use this site, update your settings or you should delete our cookies having visited the site, or you should browse the site using your browser’s anonymous usage setting (called “Incognito” in Chrome, “InPrivate” for Internet Explorer, “Private Browsing” in Firefox and Safari etc.) Session Cookies We use session cookies to remember you as you navigate around our website. These we deem strictly necessary to the working of the website. If these are disabled, then the website may not function correctly. More information on session cookies and what they are used for. Google Analytics We use Google Analytics to understand how the site is being used (eg. What pages visitors go to most often) in order to improve the user experience. User data is aggregated and completely anonymous. Examples of these cookie names are __utma, __utmc, __utmv, __utmz. Read Google’s position on privacy as it details in its Google Analytics service. Managing Cookies You can manage your cookie settings for this website at any time. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Why mental health? What we fund Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Who we are Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Contact Us Privacy Overview Cookie Notice Website Statistics Cookie Policy This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. More information about our Cookie Policy