#one in six We invest in research and services addressing both preventive and curative mental health treatments and therapies, with a specific focus on social interventions, such as creativity and the arts. Our support is focused on young people aged 11-25 from disadvantaged groups – those who face greater difficulty in accessing support when they need it. WE FUND Eligible organisations: UK registered charities or community interest companies Beneficiary group: young people aged 11-25 Aim of work: improved mental health and wellbeing Location of applicant and project: UK Funding covers: programme costs, salaries, equipment, core costs Usual grant range: £30,000 – £300,000 pa Usual term of grant: 1-3 years Funding Priorities Improved support: Help more young people access personalised mental health support when they need it, especially for those with depression and anxiety Projects which use creativity, nature and the arts to support wellbeing and positive mental health Support extra-curricular activities which make a meaningful impact to the well-being and self-esteem of pupils, both in and out of school Understanding what works: Support research into the prevention of mental illness amongst young people and the effectiveness of early interventions Build evidence on the impact of non-pharmaceutical interventions and social prescribing Build a community of talented researchers in young people’s mental health Prevention: Helping to build young people’s resilience to cope with life’s challenges Projects which give young people access to activities which offer protective support to their mental health Encouraging young people to seek effective help through awareness-raising, information and sign-posting activities The long-term health of the population is inextricably bound up with understanding and improving the mental health of young people. It has never been clearer that this an urgent issue. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Why mental health? What we fund Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Who we are Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Contact Us Privacy Overview Cookie Notice Website Statistics Cookie Policy This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. More information about our Cookie Policy