#one in six Our people Meet the team at the Prudence Trust. Founder & Trustee Director Chair & Trustee Director Current Chairman of Venice in Peril. Formerly Chair of Sir John Soane’s Museum; Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of SAB Miller and of Cadbury; Non-Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell, and Chief Financial Officer at Rio Tinto. Formerly a member of the development boards at the Art Fund and Canterbury Cathedral. Trustee Director Entertainment business, producer, and agent. Former Chair of Comic Relief/Sport Relief and Save the Children UK. Former trustee of Oxford Playhouse, RADA, Liverpool Playhouse, the National Theatre and Rugby School. Deputy Lieutenant of Oxfordshire. Trustee Director Chairman of F&C Investment Trust PLC, board director and chair of Remco (US) and Chairman of International Advisory Board (UK) of Brown Advisory, Chair, Trustee and member of the Investment Committee of Esmée Fairbairn Foundation, Supernumerary Fellowship of Pembroke College, Oxford. Various other directorships. Trustee Director Director of the Division of Psychology and Language Sciences at University College London (UCL), National Clinical Adviser for Children and Young People’s Mental Health for NHS England, Adjunct Psychiatrist at Yale Medical School, and Visiting Professor at Harvard Medical School. He is also the former Chief Executive of Anna Freud Centre. Trustee Clem is the founder of Worms Magazine and Publishing, championing under-represented voices in literature. She is the Co-founder of The Compost Library and she is the founder of Seed Readers, an online platform supporting literary charities. Director Tara is the first Director of the Prudence Trust. Previously Deputy Chief Executive of the youth charity The Prince’s Trust, Development Director for India at Human Rights Watch, formerly Trustee of Young Women’s Trust – with decades of experience of working in the non-profit industry in the UK and Internationally. Head of Grants Sarah joined Prudence Trust from New Philanthropy Capital (NPC), where she led on philanthropy consulting and supported funders including Stone Family Foundation, Croda Foundation, Centennial Bermuda Foundation and the Transition Advice Fund. She previously managed youth grants and scholarships at the Asfari Foundation, and was trustee of Crohn’s & Colitis UK. Senior Grants Manager Clare came to Prudence Trust from the Legal Education Foundation where she managed grants to the advice sector, the Justice First Fellowship and contributed to the Covid era funder collaboration, the Community Justice Fund. She has previously worked at Clothworkers’ Foundation and in programme coordination at prisoners’ arts charity, Fine Cell Work. Head of Sector Engagement Karis is Head of Sector Engagement at The Prudence Trust. Previously Director of Philanthropy at youth charity The King’s Trust, Karis’ background is in in youth development: convening philanthropists, foundations, and sector professionals to achieve ambitious social impact goals. She has also worked for human rights charity PEN International and started her career teaching English at a secondary school. Executive Assistant Ellie joined the Prudence Trust in 2025, supporting the team with administrative duties and events. To date, she has worked in the food systems space settings as well as in fundraising, previously supporting Tara at the (formerly) Prince’s Trust in 2019. Family Executive Assistant Catriona has worked with the Prudence Trust since it was established in 2020, and with the trust’s founder, Prue MacLeod, since 2017. Before this she worked in the legal sector. Jordan joined Prudence Trust from London Sport, with his previous experience including working at The National Lottery Community Fund, distributing grants on the Reaching Communities programme. The wellbeing of our young people is one of the most pressing societal challenges of our time. To meet that challenge we need to fundamentally rethink our approach to research. We need to think prevention not cure. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Why mental health? What we fund Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Who we are Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Contact Us Privacy Overview Cookie Notice Website Statistics Cookie Policy This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. More information about our Cookie Policy