#one in six Mental Health Advisory Panel Our Mental Health Advisory Panel provides guidance for our research grants. The panel brings together academic, clinical, grant-making and lived experience to give a rounded oversight of grants to research institutions. Professor of Psychoanalysis and Developmental Science, University College London; Chief Executive of the Anna Freud Centre, London Managing Partner, Livingbridge Capital; Chair, Guy’s and St Thomas’ Foundation; NED NHS Improvement Professor of Developmental Neuroscience and Psychopathology, UCL Consultant, Speaker and Mental Health Advocate Paediatric Psychiatrist, NHS Medical Director, Greater Manchester Medical Exec Lead Mental Health Regus Chair of Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, Kings College London Clinical Psychologist and Professor of Developmental Clinical Psychology, Oxford University Psychotherapeutic Counsellor, Private Practice; Wellbeing Advisor, Imperial College London Senior Head of UK Government Strategy and Partnerships, The Prince’s Trust Mental Health and leadership Consultant; Vice Chair, CAST; formerly Chief Executive, YoungMinds Advisor Advisor Advisor Advisor It is a privilege to sit with some of the most distinguished colleagues in mental health research and practice to advise one of the most visionary of Foundations committed to the wellbeing of young people. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Why mental health? What we fund Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Who we are Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Contact Us Privacy Overview Cookie Notice Website Statistics Cookie Policy This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. More information about our Cookie Policy