#one in six Our vision is for a world where no young person is owned or defined by their mental illness and where they have access to the personalized support they need, at the right time. We want to be part of the solution that successfully advances better mental health for all young people. What we do The Prudence Trust is a grant-making charity, established in 2020, investing in the advancement of young people’s mental health services and research in the UK. We invest in research and services We invest in research and services addressing both preventive and curative mental health treatments, with a specific focus on social interventions, such as creativity and the arts, and their value to wellbeing. We particularly focus on supporting young people from disadvantaged groups. Funding priorities We search for high impact projects As grant-makers we are demanding in our search for high-impact projects and ambitious with our investments. We are willing to support innovative approaches which address long-standing issues related to young people’s mental health. Our expert advisors ensure our funding decisions are well-informed and measured and we continually learn from, and are inspired by, those on the frontline. View case studies We build long term partnerships We know that change, particularly in the field of young people’s mental health, often takes a long time and so we aim to build long-term relationships with both our grantees and other grant-makers. We also seek to fund research which can subsequently be translated into positive practice. Grantee information Very few people now doubt the importance of mental health and illness to individuals, families and society. What makes the Prudence Trust different is that they want to help build the evidence to decide what to do and, what not to do. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Why mental health? What we fund Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Funding priorities Our impact Our work so far Strength in Data 2025 Disordered Eating 2024 Early Support Hubs 2024 Research and Fellowships Information for grantees Who we are Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Vision Our People Mental health advisory panel Join Us Contact Us Privacy Overview Cookie Notice Website Statistics Cookie Policy This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. More information about our Cookie Policy