Staff Hardship Fund Providing small grants to CareTech staff and those who may recently have left the company who find themselves in significant financial hardship or in, or at, serious risk of becoming in significant financial hardship. The Staff Hardship Fund is for CareTech staff and for those who have recently left the company. It is for those who are struggling to cope financially and are in, or at risk, of serious financial hardship. It is not a loan that needs to be repaid nor does it count as an advance on your wages. It is to make day-to-day living more affordable and/or to cover unexpected costs. Restricted donation We receive a restricted donation from CareTech to enable us to provide small grants to CareTech staff. Who we help The grants are open to those who may have recently left the company, who find themselves in, or at risk of, significant financial hardship. Grant awards Grants will be awarded in Pound sterling for members applying form CareTech sites outside the UK. UK Social Care Sector: Advocate for enhanced recruitment and retention prioritizing individuals from deprived backgrounds. Carers: Invest in skills development for UK care professionals and provide international support for unpaid carers. Those Living In Care: Support for disabled individuals through enhanced investment in research and innovation to improve early identification as well as management of care-related conditions. Our impact in numbers since 2018 The Foundation receives a restricted donation from CareTech to enable us to provide small grants to CareTech staff and those who may recently have left the company Are you applying for a UK or Overseas grant? To apply to the Staff Hardship Fund, please click the button below. If you are considering applying for a grant from an international CareTech site, we recommend that you please contact a member of staff at info@caretechfoundation.org.uk to discuss the Foundation’s procedures. Some of the recent impact we have made to people lives Some of our recent Stories