Community Grants The Foundation delivers a small grants programme to support the communities, families and friends of CareTech staff facing significant financial hardship or for issues affecting local communities in which CareTech operates. The Foundation delivers a small grants programme to support the communities, families and friends of CareTech staff facing significant financial hardship or for issues affecting local communities in which CareTech operates. Who we help We deliver a small grants programme to support local communities and the families and friends of CareTech staff facing significant financial hardship. Charitable Objects Grants must be in line with our Charitable Objects. Who can apply These grants are open to staff members from CareTech to support the positive contributions they make to their communities and through volunteering. Local communities Our aim is to try and tackle issues affecting the local communities in which CareTech operates. What we cannot do We cannot provide funds for matters that are properly covered by the company by virtue of an individual’s employment status. Award currency Grants will be awarded in Pound sterling for applicants applying from CareTech sites outside the UK. UK Social Care Sector: Advocate for enhanced recruitment and retention prioritizing individuals from deprived backgrounds. Carers: Invest in skills development for UK care professionals and provide international support for unpaid carers. Those Living In Care: Support for disabled individuals through enhanced investment in research and innovation to improve early identification as well as management of care-related conditions. Our impact in numbers since 2018 We aim to deliver impact year-on-year in increasing numbers and quality and to where there is the most need Are you applying for a UK or Overseas grant? To apply for a Community Grant, please click on the button below. If you are considering applying for a grant from an international CareTech site, we recommend that you contact a member of staff at info@caretechfoundation.org.uk to discuss the Foundation’s procedures. Some of recent communities we have supported