Partnership Grants The Foundation supports a small number of significant partnerships with credible and high-quality charities and social enterprises consistent with its three key focus areas. Our strategic partnerships deliver meaningful impact to people and communities in the UK and overseas. We aim to invest in projects that are innovative and cutting-edge; enhance and accelerate the development of skills in the social care sector and improve the quality of the lives of people living with disabilities. We want to forge partnerships that will significantly improve and tackle key issues in communities in the care sector. High-impact programmes Involve medium- to long-term investments in innovative and high-impact programmes that will deliver one or more of the Foundation’s objectives Investment Demonstrate and be contingent upon on any investment by the Foundation leveraging additional investment Upskilling Where appropriate, enable the Foundation to provide wider in-kind support through the expertise of CareTech staff, supply chain and wider network UK Social Care Sector: Advocate for enhanced recruitment and retention prioritizing individuals from deprived backgrounds. Carers: Invest in skills development for UK care professionals and provide international support for unpaid carers. Those Living In Care: Support for disabled individuals through enhanced investment in research and innovation to improve early identification as well as management of care-related conditions. Our impact in numbers since 2018 We aim to deliver credible and high-quality partnerships that positively impact people’s lives and enhance the quality of communities in the UK and overseas The submission deadline for the current round has passed. We hope to be accepting new partnerships in the future and encourage all interested applicants to contact us. Kindly send an e-mail to info@caretechfoundation.org.uk with the subject ‘Partnership Grants Enquiry’. Are you applying for a UK or Overseas grant? To apply for a partnership grant, you will need to submit an online application form. The application form gives you the opportunity to tell us about your organisation and the work you would like us to fund and why. To access this form, you must first complete the initial eligibility questions. For charities submitting applications from the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Germany or the USA, kindly note that the level of grants will be awarded in Pound sterling.