Application Process Staff Hardship Fund The Foundation receives a restricted donation from CareTech Holdings Limited to enable us to provide small grants to CareTech staff and those who may recently have left the company who find themselves in significant financial hardship or are at serious risk of becoming in significant financial hardship. The amount you can apply for is limited to £1,500. You can apply for a Staff Hardship Grant by clicking on the link below: Apply now Fill out the online application form (if you have any problems, please request a paper copy at info@caretechfoundation.org.uk ). A staff member will aim to read your application within two weeks and contact you to arrange a time for us to call you. Your application is then put forward to the grant panel, who will consider your application against the fund guidelines. A member of staff will speak to you to make sure that we fully understand your situation and guide you regarding the next steps. Once a decision has been reached on your application (we always aim to inform you of the outcome within 3 weeks of application), we will email you the outcome. If you have been successful, we will let you know the next steps by outcome, such as what trustees have requested the grant go towards, and how this will be paid and any information we will need from you. Our team will then arrange for successful grants to be paid as outlined in the outcome email. If you have been unsuccessful, you will also be notified by email. If you feel that your application should not have been rejected, please contact a member of the team and include any extra evidence or information that could help your application. A team member will then guide you through the appeal process. Please note that we are not able to support every application that we receive, as we only have limited funds . If your application has been rejected, you are always welcome to reapply if your situation changes and we will consider a fresh application. Apply for a Staff Hardship Grant To apply for a Community Grant, please click below to start the application process.