Our Team Finance and Operations Communications and VCS Support Health Transformation Youth Programmes Team Bejal Shah Interim CEO Bejal Shah Interim CEO Mark Boisson Director of Finance and Resources Mark Boisson Director of Finance and Resources Mark joined Hackney CVS in December 2014 as its Finance Director and leads on all aspects of finance including that of our trading subsidiary, City and Hackney Together. Mark is an experienced accountant and has previously worked at a senior level in a number of not-for-profit and other sectors, most recently in education. mark@hcvs.org.uk Berhane Gebrealfa Senior Finance Officer Berhane Gebrealfa Senior Finance Officer Berhane has many years of accounting experience, mainly working in the not-for-profit sector. He had been Finance Officer at Hackney CVS between 2007-12. He is also a treasurer of a community football club coaching kids between ages 7-18. berhane@hcvs.org.uk Delia Mattis HR and Operations Manager Delia Mattis HR and Operations Manager Delia joined Hackney CVS in January 2023 as HR and Operations Manager and leads on all HR matters including policy and procedure, as well as operations. Delia is an experienced senior manager who is qualified in employment law and has worked in a number of not-for-profit and VCS sector organisations throughout her career. delia@hcvs.org.uk Hristina Nikolova Operations Officer Hristina Nikolova Operations Officer Pat Osei-Kuffour Reception/Admin Pat Osei-Kuffour Reception/Admin Popi Begum Receptionist Popi Begum Receptionist Popi is one of Hackney CVS’ longest serving staff members and supports visitors at front of house as Hackney CVS receptionist. reception@hcvs.org.uk Monique Smith Receptionist and Admin Support Monique Smith Receptionist and Admin Support Monique is a qualified youth worker with over 10 years of experience in the youth sector. She has spent these years working with young people from disadvantaged backgrounds from Hackney, helping them build self-esteem and navigate the world. Monique has worked on initiatives such as Talent Match, Stop and Search, Improving the outcomes for Young Black Men. She also created a programme called Female Hackney to improve mental health, building self-esteem and confidence, through therapeutic support while peer mentoring on Big Sister, Little Sister in primary schools. Monique created this programme as she saw the need for it. While so many programmes at the time were focusing on improving the outcomes for men, there was nothing supporting the needs of young women. This gained publicity and was awarded funding from Safer London and The Big Lottery. Monique prides herself on building projects where she sees the need and adds the support. Monique has the ability to foster close relationships and build connections where needed. Monique is currently working on front desk as a Receptionist and Administrator for Hackney CVS. Tasia Marsh Database Coordinator Tasia Marsh Database Coordinator Sarah Watson Head of VCS Support Sarah Watson Head of VCS Support Sarah joined Hackney CVS in February 2020 to revive and develop the Hackney Giving programme, a local giving programme to support the borough’s grassroots charities and community groups. Sarah has worked in and around the voluntary sector throughout her career and has previously managed several funding programmes offering grants at different scales: from one-off events to multi-year partnership projects. When she’s not working, Sarah can often be found running in the local parks and green spaces and she enjoys sewing. She was part of the team that saved Homerton’s Chesham Arms from closure and is a founder member of Protect Pubs, a network of campaigners supporting communities nationally to retain their pubs. sarah@hackneygiving.org.uk Zelina Hackney Giving Finance and administration Zelina Hackney Giving Finance and administration zelina@hcvs.org.uk Makbule Gunes VCS Development Manager Makbule Gunes VCS Development Manager makbule.gunes@hcvs.org.uk Zebina Myrie Training Coordinator Zebina Myrie Training Coordinator zebina@hcvs.org.uk Mark Drinkwater Communications Manager Mark Drinkwater Communications Manager Mark has over 28 years’ experience working for charities, including 20 years working for CVS organisations in London. markd@hcvs.org.uk Tamara Wiltshire Community Giving and Partnerships Coordinator, Hackney Giving Tamara Wiltshire Community Giving and Partnerships Coordinator, Hackney Giving Tamara has worked in the charity sector for over 6 years in a range of areas from volunteering and fundraising to events coordinator. She has a legal background with a deep passion for community. She lives by the proverb “many hands make the work light”. In her spare time, she likes to snuggle up with an interesting book. Rachel King Lunch Clubs Development Coordinator Rachel King Lunch Clubs Development Coordinator Shamima Aktar Networks Coordinator Shamima Aktar Networks Coordinator Shamima started work at Hackney CVS in March 2011 as an apprentice and was later employed as a receptionist before taking up the role of Network Coordinator – supporting the Health and Social Care Forum and the Children and Young People’s Provider Forum. She enjoys spicy food and going to the cinema with family and friends. shamima@hcvs.org.uk Soraya Akrouche Hackney Refugee and Migrant Forum coordinator Soraya Akrouche Hackney Refugee and Migrant Forum coordinator Soraya has been working with migration and humanitarian aid for 8 years in Europe, South America and the Middle East. She is also the coordinator of Hackney Migrant and Refugee Forum and VCS Outreach worker at Hackney CVS, she supports the borough’s grassroots charities and community groups. In addition to lots of hands-on experience, Soraya has an MA in Development and poverty alleviation. In her spare time Soraya enjoys theatre, travelling and anthropological research in the Middle East. soraya@hcvs.org.uk Veryan Wilkie-Jones Programmes Manager, VCS Neighbourhoods Veryan Wilkie-Jones Programmes Manager, VCS Neighbourhoods Veryan has nearly 7 years of experience working in the community in the fantastic borough of Hackney. She previously managed community cooking class programmes at the food justice charity, Made In Hackney, and is now programmes manager for VCS Neighbourhoods. Veryan runs a Friends community group for a local park in her home area south of the river in Crystal Palace. She enjoys bringing up her two teens, practicing yoga and cooking for friends and family. Fouad Al Kadi Programme Manager: EPIC Health Fouad Al Kadi Programme Manager: EPIC Health Carrie Hirst Director of Health Transformation Carrie Hirst Director of Health Transformation Carrie has managed multiple health-based community projects within the voluntary and community sector, as well as being a commissioner for them. She has led patient and public engagement for the NHS in West London and was the Covid-19 engagement lead in Tower Hamlets’s Public Health team during the pandemic. Carrie loves creating spaces to co-produce services with residents and wider stakeholders – developing shared values and joint strategies to align complex workstreams – usually over a good cup of tea! Ask her about the time she managed volunteer programmes in Uganda, Zambia and India too! The kettle will always be on when you visit the office, so please do! (We have a fully stocked biscuit tin…) Jahada Abdul CYP/Safeguarding Officer Jahada Abdul CYP/Safeguarding Officer Jahada joined Hackney CVS as a Community Care Navigator. With over 10 years of experience in the social care sector, she has worked across voluntary, statutory, and private services. Outside of work, Jahada is passionate about trekking for various charities, travelling, swimming, and exploring oriental cuisine. Contact: jahada@hcvs.org.uk Deji Adeoshun Youth Leadership Manager Deji Adeoshun Youth Leadership Manager deji@hcvs.org.uk