Cost of living resources Cost of living Increases in the cost of living are affecting us all. If your service users are finding it hard to cover living costs, there is support available. Listed below are some of the services and resources to help support service users struggling with the cost of living. Hackney Council’s guide on the cost of living Hackney Council has worked with a range of partners to develop a comprehensive guide outlining the help and support available to residents during the cost of living crisis. Support available for households on low incomes includes Council Tax reductions, food vouchers, lunch clubs and support grants. Read more Help with the cost of living guide The government has published online information and an Easy Read version of their cost of living guide. Download here Mayor of London’s cost of living hub The Mayor of London has launched a Cost of Living hub. Read more London Plus London Plus has published information on support to help charities and individuals with the cost of living crisis. Read more Hackney Foodbank Hackney Foodbank is part of a network of foodbanks working to combat poverty and hunger. Read more Hackney Lunch Clubs network There are 12 Lunch Clubs serving lunch to Hackney’s diverse communities. The clubs help to decrease isolation and improve health, wellbeing and connection. Read more Citizens Advice Citizens Advice has a guide to help you with the cost of living which covers benefits, energy, food, travel and other essentials. Read more Help with bills and other living expenses National Energy Action (NEA) is a charity, working to ensure that everyone is warm and safe at home. Read more Older people Age UK has help on benefits, managing your money, debt, pensions and more. Read more Learning disability and Easy Read The learning disability charity Mencap has a section available to help you. Read more Mental health Check Mental Health and Money Advice website, the first UK-wide online advice service designed to help you understand, manage and improve your financial and mental health. Read more WaterHelp Thames Water has a WaterSure bill cap and WaterHelp schemes to help households in need of extra support. This includes low-income households, households with large families and those who have a water-dependent medical condition. Read more London Poverty Profile London’s Poverty Profile provides evidence and insight on poverty and inequality in London. It shines a light on the nature of poverty in the capital, in the hope of prompting action from charities, local authorities and central government. Read more Turn2Us benefits calculator Click here to access the Turn2Us benefits calculator. What do you think? What do you think? Please use the form below to give us feedback, views and suggestions. * indicates fields that are mandatory