Funding List of funding opportunities Triangle Trust Grants are available to fund work with young women and girls who are in the criminal justice system or are vulnerable and likely to enter it. Deadline: 21 October. Apply here WCIT Charity The WCIT Charity works with a wide range of non-profit organisations and aims to strengthen communities using the power of technology. Deadline: 22 October. Apply here AB Charitable Trust – Migrants and Refugees This trust funds organisations whose work promotes human dignity and defends the human rights of the most marginalised and excluded people. Deadline: 24 October. Apply here NEL Workforce Development Grants The NEL VCFSE Collaborative has a workforce development grant. Individuals working in VCS organisations with an annual turnover of £150k or less can apply for up to £250 to support their professional development. Deadline: 10 November. Apply here Screwfix Foundation Funding for projects related to the repair, maintenance, improvement or construction of buildings that are used by people in need. Deadline: 10 November. Apply here Common Ground Award This award will invest capital funding in organisations bringing people together from different backgrounds, supporting the cost of constructing or renovating facilities, or purchasing equipment. Deadline: 21 November. Apply here Grants for Good Fund The Matthew Good Foundation supports organisations that are passionate about making a difference to people, their community or the environment. Deadline: 15 December. Apply here Ongoing funding The Solidarity Fund The National Lottery Community Fund has launched a programme to fund organisations that deal with the causes of inequality. Deadline: ongoing. Apply here Access Without Limits Voluntary and community sector (VCS) organisations can access up to £10,250 of grant funding, combined with support from our operations teams to set up, launch and deliver their Duke of Edinburgh programme. Deadline: January 2026. Read more Albert Gubay Charitable Foundation This funding is for registered charities with expenditure under £10million whose charitable work meets the foundation’s current priorities. Deadline: Ongoing. Apply here Arts Council – Supporting Grassroots Music This investment programme currently supports venues, festivals, studios and rehearsal spaces, as well as sector bodies operating in grassroots music. Deadline: Ongoing. Apply here Awards for All The National Lottery Awards for All programme has changed. You can now apply for up to £20,000 for projects of up to two years in length. Deadline: ongoing. Apply here Aviva Community Fund Organisations can receive up to £50,000 in match funding from the Aviva Community Fund. Eligible organisations must have been operating for at least 12 months. Deadline: ongoing. Read more BlueSpark Foundation This foundation supports the education and development of children and young people by providing grants for educational, cultural, sporting and other projects. Deadline: ongoing. Read more Bruce Wake Trust Trustees at the Bruce Wake Trust will consider grant applications for projects that provide leisure activities for disabled people. Deadline: Ongoing. Read more BBC Children in Need – Emergency Essentials The Emergency Essentials programme supports individual children and young people living with severe poverty, a lack of the basic facilities which most of us take for granted and additional pressures such as domestic violence, disability or poor health in the family. Deadline: Ongoing. Read more Barclays Community Football Fund The Barclays Community Football Fund, in partnership with Sported, is now open offering £500 grants, free training and exclusive ticket offers to help make football more accessible. Deadline: None specified. Read more Clothworkers’ Foundation The Clothworkers’ Foundation has updated the criteria for their capital Open grants programme, to include other types of digital infrastructure including databases and websites. Deadline: Ongoing. Read more DWF Foundation The Foundation supports charities that work in areas including homelessness, health, employability, education and the environment. Deadline: tbc. Read more Delamere Dairy Foundation This foundation is open to applications from organisations working on environmental protection, young people, financial hardship, sickness or education. Deadline: tbc. Apply here Fix the Digital Divide Fund These grants are for existing members of the National Digital Inclusion Network to develop new or existing digital support services or to support people with their digital skills and access to data. Deadline: ongoing. Read more Active Spaces Fund This programme funds projects that improve facilities and help the least active young people and underserved groups to lead active and healthy lives. Deadline: 25 September. Apply here Esmee Fairbairn Foundation Organisations must have an annual income of over £100,000 to apply. The majority of their grants are for three to five years. Deadline: ongoing. Read more The Edward Gostling Foundation The Edward Gostling Foundation provides financial support to charities seeking to create significant and positive change to the lives of disadvantaged people with a long-term illness or impairment. Deadline: Ongoing. Read more Energy Saving Trust: Energy Redress Fund Energy Saving Trust has been appointed to distribute payments from companies that may have breached Ofgem rules. Charities can apply for funds to deliver energy-related projects that meet the scheme’s priorities. Deadline: None given. Read more The Happiness Fund This fund gives grants to support community projects that improve mental health, wellbeing, inclusion, learning and skills development. Deadline: tbc. Apply here Garfield Weston Foundation Garfield Weston supports a wide range of charities that make a positive difference, working in different sectors in the UK. These include welfare, youth, community, environment, education, health, arts, heritage and faith. Read more Grocer’s Charity Memorial Grant One-off grants of up to £5,000 are available to small charities young people, older people, health, the arts and heritage. Deadline: Ongoing. Read more Hedley Foundation Grants of up to £5,000 are available to support smaller charitable organisations undertaking projects for young people, disabled people, terminally ill patients and others in need. Deadline: Ongoing. Apply here London Catalyst – Main Grants This programme aims to address factors that influence health outcomes, including poverty, housing, education, employment, discrimination and isolation. Deadline: tbc. Apply here Masonic Charitable Foundation’s Children and Young People’s Grants This programme is open to national and local charities helping disadvantaged children and young people to overcome the challenges they face. No deadlines. Read more Match My Project in Hackney Match My Project connects local businesses that can provide resources with community organisations that need these resources. Deadline: ongoing. Find out more Morrisons Grant Funding This grants programme supports registered charities delivering projects that help to improve people’s lives in communities. Deadline: ongoing. Apply here Peter Harrison Foundation Active Lives The Peter Harrison Foundation funds life-enhancing opportunities for disabled people living in the most deprived areas in the UK. Deadline: tbc. Read more Paul Hamlyn Foundation Migrant Fund This funding supports efforts to prevent the rollback of rights, strengthen protections, build community solidarity, and empower people to shape a better future, guided by those working for migrant justice. Deadline: Ongoing. Apply here Percy Bilton Percy Bilton provides grants towards furnishings and equipment for charities assisting disadvantaged youth, disabled people, people with mental health problems and older people. Deadline: Ongoing. Apply here The Pixel Fund Grants are available for projects that promote the mental health and wellbeing of children and young adults. Deadline: Ongoing. Apply here Tesco Stronger Starts Tesco Stronger Starts is open to charities and community organisations to apply for a grant of up to £1,500. Every three months, three local good causes are selected to be in the blue token customer vote in Tesco stores throughout the UK. Deadline: Every three months. Read more National Lottery Community Fund – Reaching Communities This programme offers funding for organisations that work with their community to help them thrive. They fund projects that work to make positive changes in their community – whether that is for people living in the same area, or people with similar interests or life experiences. Deadline: Ongoing. Read more The True Colours Trust The Trust only funds registered charities or activities with clearly defined charitable purposes. Their work is focused on: improving access to palliative care for babies, children and young people in the UK enabling disabled children and young people to live their lives to the full. Deadline: ongoing. Read more Reach Fund The Reach Fund helps charities and social enterprises raise investment. The grant is aimed at helping these organisations provide the final information that investors need before they can invest. The programme offers grants on average of between £5,000 and £15,000. Deadline: none given. Read more The Salters’ Charitable Foundation This foundation is welcoming expressions of interest for grants of up to £10,000 for projects that have a positive impact on disadvantaged local communities and bring about wider social change. Deadline: tbc. Apply here The UK Fund The UK Fund offers larger amounts of funding for existing projects that help bring diverse communities together, including those that help children and young people use their voice to influence change. Deadline: ongoing. Find out more Yapp Charitable Trust Yapp Charitable Trust offer grants only for core funding to registered charities with a total annual expenditure of less than £40,000 who are undertaking work that focuses on one of their priority groups. Deadline: ongoing. Read more Further information Grantway is a free, innovative, user-friendly new search portal designed to make it easy for charity and volunteer organisations to find and obtain essential grant funding. Grantway searches funding opportunities from a wide range of sources and updates in real time. They are then compiled in one central location. Input your keywords and set search filters, such as region or organisation type and then review your results as you would with a search engine. Click through to access grant details or apply. Search for grants using applicable keywords and search filters, such as location. What do you think? What do you think? Please use the form below to give us feedback, views and suggestions. * indicates fields that are mandatory