Home > Apply for funding > Am I eligible for support? Am I eligible to apply? We award grants to support a range of causes across the West of England. We welcome applications from both new and established groups and organisations. The group or organisation receiving a grant does not have to be a registered charity, but must be not-for-profit and have charitable aims. Please click on the boxes below to see if you are eligible to apply. Community/Voluntary Group Community or voluntary groups must have the following: A management committee with at least three unpaid people as members. There should be a majority who are unrelated. A written constitution/set of rules that sets out the purpose of the organisation and how it is managed. Up-to-date annual accounts or financial records that show the organisation’s balance of funds, income and expenditure. A bank account in the name of the organisation with at least two unrelated signatories. Safeguarding policies and arrangements that satisfy current legislation and best practice. If you are not a formal organisation or group, and do not currently meet some of the above criteria, another charitable organisation may be able to apply on your behalf. However, we encourage you to contact us before applying. NB: If your group’s income is more than £5,000 and you are not a registered charity, company, or community benefit society, then we suggest you get advice on the status of your organisation. Usually, you must register with the Charity Commission if your charity has over £5,000 income per year. If you need advice about this, we suggest contacting one of the organisations detailed in our ‘ Other Support ‘ page. Registered Charity Charities must have the following: A board of trustees with at least three unpaid people as members. There should be a majority who are unrelated. Charities that are companies must have three directors registered with Companies House. A written constitution/articles of association that sets out the purpose of the organisation and how it is managed. Up-to-date annual accounts or financial records that show the organisation’s balance of funds, income and expenditure. A bank account in the name of the organisation with at least two unrelated signatories. Safeguarding policies and arrangements that satisfy current legislation and best practice. Community Interest Company (CIC) We will support an organisation set up as Community Interest Company (CIC) where: It is registered with Companies House. Its work has a demonstrable social benefit. The organisation has a minimum of three directors, the majority of whom are unrelated and the majority not paid employees. The salaries and benefits of any paid directors are approved by a majority of nonexecutive directors and are reasonable and proportionate to the work they do and the financial position of the organisation. It has an asset lock body with objectives which are both charitable and similar to the CIC. It is limited by guarantee (not limited by shares). NB: Although a CIC can register directors as ‘Persons with Significant Control’ with Companies House, we cannot fund a CIC where one or two directors have overall significant control. Other Most of our programmes award grants to organisations, rather than individuals. However, we do run a small number of programmes for individuals – we post details of these when they’re open for applications. Check out our Current Grant Programmes . We are usually able to fund the following types of organisations through our grant programmes, but you will need to check the guide for applicants for the individual grant programme, as this is not always the case: Town Councils Parish Councils Community Benefit Societies These organisations must have: A board of trustees with at least three unpaid people as members. There should be a majority who are unrelated. A written constitution/articles of association that sets out the purpose of the organisation and how it is managed. Up-to-date annual accounts or financial records that show the organisation’s balance of funds, income and expenditure. A bank account in the name of the organisation with at least two unrelated signatories. Safeguarding policies and arrangements that satisfy current legislation and best practice. If your type of organisation is not listed, or you have a question about this, please contact us. Organisations and activities Quartet will not support We will not normally award grants to the following types of organisations and for the following activities: Sports projects with no community or charitable element. Privately owned and profit distributing companies (e.g. companies limited by shares) or partnerships. To cover costs incurred before a grant can be awarded. To solely/primarily support animal welfare. Arts projects with no community or charitable element. Where the government and other public bodies currently have a statutory responsibility to provide the service. Medical research, equipment or treatment. Groups or activities that are giving support to a political party. Where it is intended to influence people’s religious choices. For further information on eligibility please visit Frequently asked questions , contact us on 0117 989 7700 or email applications@quartetcf.org.uk . Apply for funding Last year we gave over £5 million to local voluntary and community groups across Bristol, Bath, North East Somerset, North Somerset and South Gloucestershire. Reflections: A year in review Local stories What’s happening on the ground ProHelp in action – Bristol law firm TLT supports St Pauls Advice Centre with their move to new home Robert Griffith, MBE officially opening St Pauls Advice Centre, Junction 3 Library St Pauls Advice Centre has been supporting residents… Supporting regeneration in Haywood Village, North Somerset Funding in action – The Grove Fund A family fund making a difference through trusted, long-term relationships. View all stories I want to... Charitable organisations Apply for funding Check my eligibility to apply Check the progress of my application Know how to report on my grant Ask for some pro bono support Quartet supporters See how my money will make a difference Set up a named fund Leave a legacy Transfer a trust Get some information for my client (professional advisers) Do some skilled volunteering for a charitable organisation Speak to a member of the Philanthropy team General Make a donation Learn more about diversity at Quartet Find a piece of research Work or volunteer for Quartet Ask something else