Home > Philanthropy > Set up a fund Setting up a fund Making a positive impact in your local community is easier than you think – and we’re here to support you every step of the way. We take the time to understand the causes and places you care about and provide tailored philanthropy advice to help meet your charitable aims. Where to start There are many options when it comes to setting up your fund and our team of philanthropy advisers will help guide you on deciding the right option for you. Creating a named fund With a gift of £25,000 or more, you can create a named, permanent fund for your family or your business. Your donation is carefully invested, and part of the returns on the invested income is used to support local charitable organisations – ensuring your impact is felt today and in years to come. Your dedicated philanthropy adviser will support you with your charitable goals and connect you with local charities that align with your values. You’ll have the flexibility to grow your fund over time, visit the organisations you support, and meet other fund holders. Establishing a named fund is a powerful way to ensure your generosity continues to benefit your community for generations to come. Creating a flow through fund This is ideal for individuals or businesses donating over £10,000 who want to see their contribution make an immediate impact. Our experienced philanthropy advisers will work closely with you to ensure that your chosen causes or areas receive funding swiftly and seamlessly. Other ways of working with us We offer a flexible approach with a variety of giving options. These may include pooled funding, giving circles, or charitable trust transfers. We would be delighted to discuss other giving opportunities with you. Talk to us We are delighted that you are considering supporting local charitable organisations in the West of England. We’d love the opportunity to discuss how we can help you. Contact: Sabita Ravi sabita.ravi@quartetcf.org.uk 0117 989 7712 Funding in action The Genge Fund – supporting children’s sport and education Ellis Genge, England rugby player and proud Bristolian, set up The Genge Fund to empower local children through sport and education. View all stories The Bath & West Community Energy Fund (BWCE Fund) The BWCE Fund provides grants to local projects that make environmental improvements, reduce carbon emissions and tackle fuel poverty. View all stories The Grove Fund – supporting survivors of domestic abuse Established in memory of Lynn Patch, Steve’s wife and Emma’s mum, The Grove Fund is dedicated to her wish to help women and children who find themselves vulnerable due to domestic violence or abuse. View all stories Frequently asked questions Can I claim for Gift Aid? If you are an individual UK taxpayer, you can add Gift Aid to your donation which means that for every pound you give, we receive an extra 25 pence from HMRC. Imagine what a difference that could make and it doesn’t cost you a thing! For more information, please read 4.3 in our Gift Acceptance and Stewardship Policy . Can I donate gifts other than money? Yes, gifts of shares, property, land and other investments are very welcome and, like donating cash, can bring generous tax benefits for both you and Quartet. Leaving a donation to us in your Will is also a very effective way of supporting local good causes. For more information, please read 6.2 in our Gift Acceptance and Stewardship Policy . Can I support a specific cause or geographical area? Yes, you can request that your donation be used specifically to support community and voluntary groups in one of our four geographical areas (Bath and North East Somerset, Bristol, North Somerset or South Gloucestershire). You could also choose to support one of our themed funds which benefit particular groups of people – please contact us for more details. Reflections: A year in review Local stories What’s happening on the ground ProHelp in action – Bristol law firm TLT supports St Pauls Advice Centre with their move to new home Robert Griffith, MBE officially opening St Pauls Advice Centre, Junction 3 Library St Pauls Advice Centre has been supporting residents… Supporting regeneration in Haywood Village, North Somerset Funding in action – The Grove Fund A family fund making a difference through trusted, long-term relationships. View all stories I want to... Charitable organisations Apply for funding Check my eligibility to apply Check the progress of my application Know how to report on my grant Ask for some pro bono support Quartet supporters See how my money will make a difference Set up a named fund Leave a legacy Transfer a trust Get some information for my client (professional advisers) Do some skilled volunteering for a charitable organisation Speak to a member of the Philanthropy team General Make a donation Learn more about diversity at Quartet Find a piece of research Work or volunteer for Quartet Ask something else