Home > Apply for funding Apply for funding If you are a charity, voluntary or community organisation based and working in the West of England and are looking for funding to support the work you deliver, then we may be able to help. Last year we awarded over 1,000 grants to organisations in our area, to a value of over £5 million. 80% of the total amount awarded went to organisations with an income of less than £500,000. We strive to be as open and accessible as possible to local groups and organisations that need grant funding. That’s why we’re proud to be a signatory of IVAR’s commitment to open and trusting grant-making. You can find out more by clicking on the IVAR logo. Before you apply for a grant Are you eligible? Check if you are eligible before applying for a grant. Got a question? Have a look at our help and advice section. Apply for a grant North Somerset Community Partnership Grant Wessex Water Foundation Community Fund Bristol City Council Sparking Social Action in Recovery Grant Bristol Youth and Play Support Programme Bath & West Community Energy Fund Grant Express Grant Programme North Somerset Community Transport Grant Stoke Park Group Friends’ Fund Grant Find out who we have awarded grants to Meet the team Liz Alcock Grants Officer Liz is a member of the Grants Team with responsibility for administering and supporting a variety of grant programmes. Liz… Liz Alcock Grants Officer Liz is a member of the Grants Team with responsibility for administering and supporting a variety of grant programmes. Liz… David Triggle-Wells Interim Head of Programmes David is responsible for the management of the Foundation’s external programmes, monitoring and social needs. David Triggle-Wells Interim Head of Programmes David is responsible for the management of the Foundation’s external programmes, monitoring and social needs. Laura Murgatroyd Philanthropy Officer Laura is a member of the Philanthropy team with responsibility for Quartet’s grants programmes. Over the last 20 years she… Laura Murgatroyd Philanthropy Officer Laura is a member of the Philanthropy team with responsibility for Quartet’s grants programmes. Over the last 20 years she… Julie Newman Philanthropy Officer Julie is a member of the Philanthropy Team with responsibility for the Foundation’s grants programmes. Julie manages a number of… Julie Newman Philanthropy Officer Julie is a member of the Philanthropy Team with responsibility for the Foundation’s grants programmes. Julie manages a number of… Andrew O’Sullivan Philanthropy Officer Andy is a member of the Philanthropy Team with responsibility for the Foundation’s grants programmes. Andy manages a number of… Andrew O’Sullivan Philanthropy Officer Andy is a member of the Philanthropy Team with responsibility for the Foundation’s grants programmes. Andy manages a number of… Professional help. Powerful change. Our ProHelp team helps charitable organisations seeking expert help, connect with professionals willing to share their expertise. Find out more about our skilled volunteering service. Reflections: A year in review Local stories What’s happening on the ground ProHelp in action – Bristol law firm TLT supports St Pauls Advice Centre with their move to new home Robert Griffith, MBE officially opening St Pauls Advice Centre, Junction 3 Library St Pauls Advice Centre has been supporting residents… Supporting regeneration in Haywood Village, North Somerset Funding in action – The Grove Fund A family fund making a difference through trusted, long-term relationships. View all stories I want to... Charitable organisations Apply for funding Check my eligibility to apply Check the progress of my application Know how to report on my grant Ask for some pro bono support Quartet supporters See how my money will make a difference Set up a named fund Leave a legacy Transfer a trust Get some information for my client (professional advisers) Do some skilled volunteering for a charitable organisation Speak to a member of the Philanthropy team General Make a donation Learn more about diversity at Quartet Find a piece of research Work or volunteer for Quartet Ask something else