Home > Pro bono > Pro bono for charities and voluntary groups ProHelp for charities and voluntary groups Free professional advice and support to strengthen your organisation We recognise that charitable organisations often require more than just financial support. That’s why we provide our ProHelp service, which connects the specific needs of charitable organisations with the professional skills and expertise generously offered by local individuals and organisations. Our ProHelp service is offered completely free of charge, using invaluable local professional expertise within the communities of Bristol, Bath and North East Somerset, North Somerset, and South Gloucestershire. Whether you need, for example, HR guidance, legal advice or branding assistance, we partner with a diverse group of dedicated experts who donate their time and knowledge to make a positive impact in our communities. What skills can ProHelp support with? Legal Contracts, data protection, property leases, employment law. HR Policy reviews, recruitment advice, HR health checks. Finance Business planning, non-detailed tax and VAT advice. Marketing and comms Branding, copywriting, PR, digital strategy. IT and digital Software training, CRM systems, cyber security. Property and buildings Design, engineering, structural and project management advice. How do I request ProHelp support? If your charitable organisation is seeking support, please contact me with a brief description of your organisation and the assistance you require. We can discuss your needs and see how we can work together. john.stienlet@quartetcf.org.uk 0117 989 7705 ProHelp in action : Jubilee Pool Jubilee Pool in South Bristol is a popular swimming pool in the heart of the community. When it faced permanent closure, Friends of Jubilee Pool approached ProHelp for support with a Community Asset Transfer from the council. In this video, hear first-hand from Dereth Wood, Trustee of Jubilee Pool, about the challenges they faced, and how with the support of our ProHelp service, they were able to access the professional expertise they needed. Frequently asked questions What skills can ProHelp support with? Our volunteers bring a wide array of skills and expertise, offering extensive support in various areas. For example: Legal – contract reviews, governance, data protection. HR – employment advice, policy reviews, recruitment. Finance – business planning, financial systems advice. Marketing and comms – branding, PR, digital strategy, website support. IT and digital – CRM training, cyber security, software support. Property and planning – surveys, valuations, planning advice. How do I request ProHelp support? If your charitable organisation is seeking support, please contact john.stienlet@quartetcf.org.uk with a brief description of your organisation and the assistance you require. We can discuss your needs and see how we can work together. What skills can ProHelp support with? These are some examples of support we may be able to match you with: HR – health checks, policy and procedure reviews, employment advice. Legal – commercial property lease reviews and negotiation, data protection and privacy policy updates, intellectual property protection, changing legal structures, updating Articles of Association. Professional building services – design, surveys, property and market rates advice, capital project management advice, structural engineering, valuations, planning advice. Communications and creative design – branding, copywriting, website design, digital strategy, SEO and Google analytics training. IT – software training and advice on CRM systems and cyber security. Business planning – strategy, coaching and mentoring, facilitation, financial management systems. Non-detailed financial, tax or VAT advice. Are there any services ProHelp cannot assist with? Recruiting trustees, treasurers or other general longer-term volunteer positions. Completing annual accounts or audits. Providing detailed financial, tax or VAT advice. Internal disputes, mediation. Actual building/construction work or project management. Fundraising or sourcing corporate sponsorship. Is my organisation eligible to apply for ProHelp support? We welcome applications from charities, voluntary groups, and community organisations that are: Based in the West of England (Bristol, Bath and North East Somerset, North Somerset, or South Gloucestershire). Working to strengthen communities and support people facing inequality, hardship, or disadvantage. Not-for-profit, including registered charities, CICs (limited by guarantee), and social enterprises. Organisations that are not eligible to apply for ProHelp support? Those solely supporting animal welfare. Arts projects with no community or charitable element. Where the government and other public bodies currently have a statutory responsibility to provide. Medical research. Groups or activities that are giving support to a political party. Activities intended to influence people’s religious choices. Sports projects with no community or charitable element. Individuals with any private matters (e.g. family law, employment, financial or consumer disputes). How many times can an organisation apply for support? You can request up to two ProHelp matches in a 12 month period. Priority may be given to groups that haven’t received support before or sectors that are underrepresented. How does the ProHelp service work? Charities and community groups contact us with their support needs. Businesses and professionals offer time us their skills and expertise. We work with our ProHelp Volunteers to understand the skills, services and time being offered; alongside any social issues they may be passionate about supporting. We match the needs of the charity with the skills of the professional, ensuring the right fit for our volunteers and the organisation. We keep in touch throughout the length of the project, providing ongoing reassurance and support. We gather feedback from our volunteers and the organisations we support on completion of a project. Formal recognition is presented to the professional(s) who have donated their skills and knowledge. Am I guaranteed ProHelp support if my organisation meets the specified criteria? We do our best to match organisations with the right expertise, but as ProHelp relies on volunteers, we can’t guarantee a successful match, especially for urgent requests. What commitments do I need to make? Organisations are offered support if they agree that they have the time and resources to work effectively with our ProHelp volunteers. Reflections: A year in review Latest news What’s happening on the ground Funding boost for local projects as Bristol Temple Quarter Regeneration takes shape Funding to support community-led projects as part of the regeneration of Bristol Temple Quarter. September 2025 newsletter – a spotlight on food poverty In September’s newsletter we explore the impact of rising food costs on households in the West of England and how… In View 2025 View all news I want to... Charitable organisations Apply for funding Check my eligibility to apply Check the progress of my application Know how to report on my grant Ask for some pro bono support Quartet supporters See how my money will make a difference Set up a named fund Leave a legacy Transfer a trust Get some information for my client (professional advisers) Do some skilled volunteering for a charitable organisation Speak to a member of the Philanthropy team General Make a donation Learn more about diversity at Quartet Find a piece of research Work or volunteer for Quartet Ask something else