Home > Pro bono Linking professional skills with charitable organisations in need of expertise Welcome to ProHelp – our skilled volunteering service that connects charitable organisations seeking expert help, with professionals willing to share their expertise. For us, philanthropy is more than just financial donations. Through ProHelp, individuals and businesses can make a lasting impact by offering their time and knowledge to strengthen the local voluntary groups who deliver vital services across the West of England. Are you a business or professional looking to volunteer your time and skills? Are you a charity or voluntary group needing professional help? + organisations supported + skilled volunteering hours £ k worth of pro bono support Since 1st September 2020. How do I find out more about ProHelp? We’d love the opportunity to talk to you about our ProHelp service. If you are an organisation with skills to share, or a charity looking for pro bono support, please contact me for an informal chat. john.stienlet@quartetcf.org.uk 0117 989 7705 ProHelp in action : Jubilee Pool Jubilee Pool in South Bristol is a popular swimming pool in the heart of the community. When it faced permanent closure, Friends of Jubilee Pool approached ProHelp for support with a Community Asset Transfer from the council. In this video, hear first-hand from Dereth Wood, Trustee of Jubilee Pool, about the challenges they faced, and how with the support of our ProHelp service, they were able to access the professional expertise they needed. Reflections: A year in review Latest news What’s happening on the ground Funding boost for local projects as Bristol Temple Quarter Regeneration takes shape Funding to support community-led projects as part of the regeneration of Bristol Temple Quarter. September 2025 newsletter – a spotlight on food poverty In September’s newsletter we explore the impact of rising food costs on households in the West of England and how… In View 2025 View all news I want to... Charitable organisations Apply for funding Check my eligibility to apply Check the progress of my application Know how to report on my grant Ask for some pro bono support Quartet supporters See how my money will make a difference Set up a named fund Leave a legacy Transfer a trust Get some information for my client (professional advisers) Do some skilled volunteering for a charitable organisation Speak to a member of the Philanthropy team General Make a donation Learn more about diversity at Quartet Find a piece of research Work or volunteer for Quartet Ask something else