Home > News and Reports News and reports We’re proud to share with you examples of our work from across the West of England, showcasing how philanthropy can help drive lasting, positive change in our communities. Explore this page and read about the impact of local giving and the grants we make, be inspired by fund holder stories, and stay informed with our latest research reports which explore key issues affecting our communities. If you’d like to sign up to our newsletter for a monthly round up of all this and more, please subscribe below. ProHelp in action – Bristol law firm TLT supports St Pauls Advice Centre with their move to new home St Pauls Advice Centre has been supporting residents of St. Pauls, Ashley and East Bristol for 53 years, providing a range of free advice such as debt, immigration and welfare rights. With demand for their services growing year on year,… More 4 August 2025 ProHelp in action – Bristol law firm TLT supports St Pauls Advice Centre with their move to new home St Pauls Advice Centre has been supporting residents of St. Pauls, Ashley and East Bristol for 53 years, providing a range of free advice such as debt, immigration and welfare rights. With demand for their services growing year on year,… More Supporting regeneration in Haywood Village, North Somerset In 2024, housing developer Persimmon in discussions with North Somerset Council, set up the new Haywood Village Endowment fund from Section 106 contributions. More 31 July 2025 Supporting regeneration in Haywood Village, North Somerset In 2024, housing developer Persimmon in discussions with North Somerset Council, set up the new Haywood Village Endowment fund from Section 106 contributions. More Funding in action – The Grove Fund A family fund making a difference through trusted, long-term relationships. More 17 July 2025 Funding in action – The Grove Fund A family fund making a difference through trusted, long-term relationships. More Local giving supports new Incredible Kids initiative Incredible Kids is a Bristol-based charity dedicated to providing inclusive play sessions for children and young people with additional needs or disabilities, along with their families. More 16 July 2025 Local giving supports new Incredible Kids initiative Incredible Kids is a Bristol-based charity dedicated to providing inclusive play sessions for children and young people with additional needs or disabilities, along with their families. More Funding in action – The Bath & West Community Energy Fund (BWCE Fund) The BWCE Fund provides grants to local projects that make environmental improvements, reduce carbon emissions and tackle fuel poverty. More 16 July 2025 Funding in action – The Bath & West Community Energy Fund (BWCE Fund) The BWCE Fund provides grants to local projects that make environmental improvements, reduce carbon emissions and tackle fuel poverty. More In conversation with professional advisor Philip Chapman Philip Chapman, a financial advisor with Kellands, shares his experience of supporting clients who want to give to charity. Philip also holds a fund with Quartet, set up in memory of his late wife Alyson. More 16 July 2025 In conversation with professional advisor Philip Chapman Philip Chapman, a financial advisor with Kellands, shares his experience of supporting clients who want to give to charity. Philip also holds a fund with Quartet, set up in memory of his late wife Alyson. More Shakespeare at the Tobacco Factory Bursary Fund Bristol-based theatre company Shakespeare at the Tobacco Factory, was established in 2004 with the aim of producing classic plays with large professional casts in an accessible and understandable way. More 16 July 2025 Shakespeare at the Tobacco Factory Bursary Fund Bristol-based theatre company Shakespeare at the Tobacco Factory, was established in 2004 with the aim of producing classic plays with large professional casts in an accessible and understandable way. More Redcliffe Parish Charity Fund The Redcliffe Parish Charities was set up in 1984 to manage the many donations being made annually to St Mary Redcliffe Parish Church in Bristol, and to consolidate the gifts received previously over hundreds of years. More 16 July 2025 Redcliffe Parish Charity Fund The Redcliffe Parish Charities was set up in 1984 to manage the many donations being made annually to St Mary Redcliffe Parish Church in Bristol, and to consolidate the gifts received previously over hundreds of years. More The Bristol Port Company Fund The Bristol Port Company is one of Quartet’s longest-standing fund holders. More 24 June 2025 The Bristol Port Company Fund The Bristol Port Company is one of Quartet’s longest-standing fund holders. More Empowering Bristol’s next generation Founded by England rugby star and proud Bristolian Ellis Genge, The Genge Fund is a tribute to the city that shaped him. More 24 June 2025 Empowering Bristol’s next generation Founded by England rugby star and proud Bristolian Ellis Genge, The Genge Fund is a tribute to the city that shaped him. More Funding in action: LWOOSA and The Bristol Port Company Be inspired by our video about long-term fund holder The Bristol Port Company and the essential funding they are providing, through Quartet, to support the vital work of Lawrence Weston Out of School Activities (LWOOSA). More 7 November 2023 Funding in action: LWOOSA and The Bristol Port Company Be inspired by our video about long-term fund holder The Bristol Port Company and the essential funding they are providing, through Quartet, to support the vital work of Lawrence Weston Out of School Activities (LWOOSA). More Whitewood Family Fund A family fund helping young people through sport. Read about the inspiring story of Ruth and Arthur Whitewood and their legacy of the Whitewood Family Fund. More 10 August 2023 Whitewood Family Fund A family fund helping young people through sport. Read about the inspiring story of Ruth and Arthur Whitewood and their legacy of the Whitewood Family Fund. More I want to... Charitable organisations Apply for funding Check my eligibility to apply Check the progress of my application Know how to report on my grant Ask for some pro bono support Quartet supporters See how my money will make a difference Set up a named fund Leave a legacy Transfer a trust Get some information for my client (professional advisers) Do some skilled volunteering for a charitable organisation Speak to a member of the Philanthropy team General Make a donation Learn more about diversity at Quartet Find a piece of research Work or volunteer for Quartet Ask something else