Home > About us About us We’ve been connecting local generosity with local needs to create lasting change across the West of England for over three decades. Offering philanthropy advice and guidance to individuals, families, charitable trusts, and businesses, we collaborate closely with our donors to help them achieve their charitable aims and work with charities to ensure that funding reaches those most in need. Our funding supports local charitable groups across Bristol, Bath and North East Somerset (B&NES), North Somerset and South Gloucestershire. What we do We listen… We listen to and visit local charities to understand where the need is greatest. We understand… We work closely with our fund holders to understand and meet their charitable aims. We help… We direct funding to local charities who support some of the most disadvantaged communities in our region. We do more than fund… We connect skilled volunteers to charities needing their expertise. Why it matters Local charities are the backbone of our communities, providing a wide range of services to people in need of support. From addressing food poverty and supporting those experiencing homelessness, to meeting the rising demand for mental health support and combating loneliness, the impact of local charities is vast. However, in recent years they have faced a triple challenge: rising demands, increasing costs, and reduced funding. 80% of voluntary organisations are small or micro, with annual incomes under £100,000, yet they receive just 3.6% of the sector’s total funding. They need support now more than ever. Our impact, since 1986: Helped local charities We are proud to have distributed over £80 million in grants to hundreds of local charities. Grown to become one of the largest grant-makers In 2024/25 we awarded nearly £5 million in grants, making us one of the largest independent grant-makers in the West of England. £64 million endowment fund We have built a £64 million endowment fund ensuring communities receive support for generations to come. Achieving deep rooted change in the West of England At the heart of our work is a £64 million endowment fund, built over decades to provide sustainable, long-term support for local charities. This ensures organisations tackling issues like poverty, mental health, education, youth services and climate change, have the funding they need – now and for generations to come. Our mission We believe in the power of local giving to transform lives. By inspiring philanthropy and directing generosity to where it’s needed most, we help create a fairer, greener region where everyone can thrive. Our vision A West of England where communities are strong, well-resourced, and resilient—where grassroots charities can respond to local needs and aspirations, today and always. Our approach By growing our resources and using them effectively, we empower communities to create lasting change, ensuring that everyone has the opportunity to fulfil their potential. Reflections: A year in review Latest news What’s happening on the ground Funding boost for local projects as Bristol Temple Quarter Regeneration takes shape Funding to support community-led projects as part of the regeneration of Bristol Temple Quarter. September 2025 newsletter – a spotlight on food poverty In September’s newsletter we explore the impact of rising food costs on households in the West of England and how… In View 2025 View all news I want to... Charitable organisations Apply for funding Check my eligibility to apply Check the progress of my application Know how to report on my grant Ask for some pro bono support Quartet supporters See how my money will make a difference Set up a named fund Leave a legacy Transfer a trust Get some information for my client (professional advisers) Do some skilled volunteering for a charitable organisation Speak to a member of the Philanthropy team General Make a donation Learn more about diversity at Quartet Find a piece of research Work or volunteer for Quartet Ask something else