Home Helping create a place for all to thrive in the West of England. Funding to help local community projects make a lasting impact. “Quartet makes smaller charities feel seen and part of something bigger.” Refugees Welcome North Somerset InView The Digital Divide Our report highlights digital exclusion, those most at risk, and the digital needs of charities in the West of England. Matching local giving with local needs We connect donations from local people and businesses with local charities to create lasting change in our communities Quartet Community Foundation is a leading independent grant-maker in the West of England, supporting local charities and community groups in Bristol, Bath and North East Somerset, North Somerset, and South Gloucestershire. At the heart of this, is our expert philanthropy advice service, built on trusted, long-term relationships with our donors. We collaborate closely with them and local charities to ensure that funding reaches those who need it most. Apply for funding In 2024/25 we gave over £5 million to local voluntary and community groups across Bristol, Bath, North East Somerset, North Somerset and South Gloucestershire. Explore ways to give locally An individual, family or organisation looking to donate? Learn more >> A charitable trust looking for help and guidance? Learn more >> An organisation looking to share your professional skills? Learn more >> A professional adviser looking for charitable giving advice? Learn more >> Our vision A place for all to thrive We want to see a West of England where communities are strong, well-resourced, and resilient—where grassroots charities can respond to local needs and aspirations, today and always. Find out more Funding in action The Genge Fund – supporting children’s sport and education Ellis Genge, England rugby player and proud Bristolian, set up The Genge Fund to empower local children through sport and education. View all stories Local giving supports new Incredible Kids initiative Families at Incredible Kids face various challenges, such as behavioural, sensory, and dietary issues, financial pressures, and food poverty. View all stories The Grove Fund – supporting survivors of domestic abuse Established in memory of Lynn Patch, Steve’s wife and Emma’s mum, The Grove Fund is dedicated to her wish to help women and children who find themselves vulnerable due to domestic violence or abuse. View all stories Latest news What’s happening on the ground Funding boost for local projects as Bristol Temple Quarter Regeneration takes shape Funding to support community-led projects as part of the regeneration of Bristol Temple Quarter. September 2025 newsletter – a spotlight on food poverty In September’s newsletter we explore the impact of rising food costs on households in the West of England and how… In View 2025 View all news I want to... Charitable organisations Apply for funding Check my eligibility to apply Check the progress of my application Know how to report on my grant Ask for some pro bono support Quartet supporters See how my money will make a difference Set up a named fund Leave a legacy Transfer a trust Get some information for my client (professional advisers) Do some skilled volunteering for a charitable organisation Speak to a member of the Philanthropy team General Make a donation Learn more about diversity at Quartet Find a piece of research Work or volunteer for Quartet Ask something else