5th March 2020, words by Private: Oliver French In Summer 2019 we published Hard Edges Scotland , which expanded on our initial statistical profile of severe and multiple disadvantage from 2015. Over the last few months we’ve taken this much further and published a whole range of new research reports which approach severe and multiple disadvantage from different angles, using different methods – covering issues including gender , ethnicity, culture and faith , the media and politics . They have been published as an ongoing series because rather than presenting entirely different stories, we believe the issues they discuss are interconnected. We’d like to explore what the common threads and connections are, as well as what they’re all missing or obscuring. Our own view is partial and we would like to bring others into the process of identifying and discussing these connections. So (as we did with Hard Edges Scotland ) we’re launching a small grants programme (£1,500 – £3,000) for people to lead new conversations about severe and multiple disadvantage which explore, combine and pick apart the different Connected reports and take them in new directions. We’ve outlined some of our own thoughts on some interesting themes which could be picked up in spin-off conversations, but we’re very keen to hear other people’s ideas. You can find all of the reports, plus more detailed information on the grants programme, on our Connected page . Comments (0) Author Oliver French Nurturing Alternative Realities Lead More from Private: Oliver French “You make your own family” – new report on LGBT experiences of severe and multiple disadvantage “You make your own family” – new report on LGBT… Authors: Private: Oliver French Date: 06.08.2020 Long read “You make your own family” – new report on LGBT… Authors: Private: Oliver French Date: 06.08.2020 Long read Rumblings, responses, and a new reality: early impacts of COVID-19 on our work and partnerships Rumblings, responses, and a new reality: early impacts of COVID-19… Authors: Private: Oliver French Date: 14.04.2020 Rumblings, responses, and a new reality: early impacts of COVID-19… Authors: Private: Oliver French Date: 14.04.2020 Data and disadvantage: are we learning anything new? Authors: Private: Oliver French Date: 05.02.2019 Data and disadvantage: are we learning anything new? Authors: Private: Oliver French Date: 05.02.2019 Stay up to date Get regular updates of our redistribution process Sign up to the newsletter Stay up to date Join our mailing list to receive updates about Lankelly Chase Foundation and our partners work, including the regular newsletter and information on funding opportunities, programme updates, new research and publications, event invites and the occasional requests to take part in research or surveys – based on your interests. You can unsubscribe by clicking the link in our emails where indicated, or emailing enquiries@lankellychase.org.uk . We promise to keep your details safe and secure. We won’t share your details outside of Lankelly Chase without your permission. Find out more about how we use personal information in our Privacy Policy .