Privacy Policy The Vinehill Trust (“we”, “our”, or “us”) is a philanthropic organisation focusing on the areas of heritage, music and health. We are a charity registered in England and Wales under charity number 1185978. This privacy notice explains how and why we collect your personal information through our website. This privacy notice also provides information about how we keep your personal information secure, and how you can let us know if you would like us to change how we manage it. We are committed to keeping your personal information safe and meeting our responsibilities under privacy law. Given that this is information that can be used to identify you, we want you to be confident that we are using it responsibly. COLLECTING YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION – WHAT, WHY AND WHEN? OUR LAWFUL BASIS FOR PROCESSING YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION WHO DO WE SHARE YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION WITH? HOW DO WE PROTECT YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION? HOW LONG DO WE KEEP YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION FOR? WHERE DO WE STORE AND PROCESS YOUR INFORMATION? SOCIAL MEDIA WHAT ARE YOUR RIGHTS? CONTACT US UPDATES TO THIS NOTICE 1. COLLECTING YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION – WHAT, WHY AND WHEN? a. We will collect your email address in order to send you copies of our newsletter. We will also collect information about the way you use our Website, so that we can improve the effectiveness of our business (see our Cookies Notice for more information); 2. OUR LAWFUL BASIS FOR PROCESSING YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION a. Under UK data protection law, organisations need a ‘lawful basis’ to process your personal information. The lawful basis we rely upon to process your personal information may differ for each processing activity. Below, we set out which processing activity is linked to which lawful basis: b. Lawful basis i. Consent – Article 6(1)(a) GDPR/UK GDPR c. Purpose of processing i. Collecting your personal information in order to send you our newsletter ii. Maintaining and monitoring the performance of our website d. Categories of personal information i. Email address ii. Cookies e. Lawful basis i. Legitimate interests – Article 6(1)(f) GDPR/UK GDPR f. Purpose of processing i. Maintaining the integrity of our IT systems and the continuity of our activities ii. Obtaining advice from our professional advisors iii. Dealing with competent law enforcement or regulatory bodies iv. Transfer of our assets g. Categories of personal information i. Cookies ii. Email address iii. Email address iv. Email address h. If you have any concerns about our processing, please contact us via the contact us section below. 3. WHO DO WE SHARE YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION WITH? a. We may share your personal information with third parties, including: i. with contractors, suppliers, or other third parties that provide services on our behalf (such as website host providers); ii. with our professional advisors; iii. Any competent law enforcement body, regulator, government agency, court or other third party where we believe disclosure is necessary: (i) as a matter of applicable law or regulation, (ii) to exercise, establish or defend our legal rights, or (iii) to protect your vital interests or those of any other person; iv. Another organisation, as part of a merger or other transfer of all or part of our assets; and v. Another person, where you have consented to the disclosure. 4. HOW DO WE PROTECT YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION? a. We place great importance on the security of your personal information and we always try to take appropriate precautions to protect it. We use a variety of security technologies and procedures to help us protect your personal information from unauthorised access, use or disclosure. 5. HOW LONG DO WE KEEP YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION FOR? a. The length of time we hold your personal information varies depending upon the type of information and its use. We will hold your personal information on our systems only for as long as necessary to provide our services, or for such other essential purposes such complying with our legal obligations. b. The actual retention periods for different types of personal information that we hold can be found here. If you have any questions about our data retention policy, please email: info@vinehilltrust.uk . 6. WHERE DO WE STORE AND PROCESS YOUR INFORMATION? a. We generally store and process your information within the the United Kingdom or European Economic Area b. Where we need to transfer your information outside the United Kingdom or the EEA or we only do so to countries which have been determined by His Majesty’s Government or (where applicable) the European Commission to have an adequate level of data protection. Where we transfer personal information to countries that have not been determined to have an adequate level of protection we do so using the UK Addendum to the European Commission’s standard contractual clauses (either the controller-controller or the controller-processor clauses). 7. SOCIAL MEDIA a. We may provide social media links that enable you to share information with your social networks and to interact with us on various social media websites. The personal information you choose to provide to or that is collected by these third parties are not covered by this policy. You should review the privacy policy of any website you interact with before you allow the collection or use of your personal information. b. Our social media page can be found at X.com/VinehillTrust . See X’s Privacy Notice https://x.com/en/privacy for more information about how X manages personal information, or contact X online at: https://help.x.com/forms/privacy 8. WHAT ARE YOUR RIGHTS? a. You have specific rights in relation to your personal information. They are as follows: Your legal right Subject access What this means You have the right to ask us for copies of your personal information. There are some exemptions, which means you may not always receive all the information we process. You can read more about this here . Your legal right Rectification What this means You have the right to ask us to rectify information you think is inaccurate. You also have the right to ask us to complete information you think is incomplete. You can read more about this here. Your legal right Erasure / right to be forgotten What this means You have the right to ask us to erase your personal information in certain circumstances. You can read more about this here . Your legal right Restriction What this means You have the right to ask us to restrict the processing of your information in certain circumstances. You can read more about this here . Your legal right Objection What this means You have the right to object to processing of your personal information for direct marketing purposes. You also have the right to object to our processing of your personal information where the processing forms part of our public tasks, or is in our legitimate interests. You can read more about this here . Your legal right Portability What this means This only applies to information you have given us. You have the right to ask that we transfer the information you gave us from one organisation to another, or give it to you. The right only applies if we are processing information based on your consent or under, or in talks about entering into a contract and the processing is automated. You can read more about this here. Your legal right Withdraw consent What this means You have the right to withdraw consent that you have provided to us to process your personal information, at any time. Note that withdrawing consent does not affect the lawfulness of the processing based on consent before the consent is withdrawn. b. If you require us to supply you with details of the personal information that we hold about you, then we will usually provide this information free of charge and we will provide this information to you within one month of your request unless the request is complex or if you have made numerous requests. If this is the case we will inform you within one month of your request about the reason for the extension of time. If your request is manifestly unfounded or excessive we will either charge a reasonable fee or provide an explanation for our refusal to respond. c. You have the right to lodge a complaint with a data protection authority about our collection and use of your personal information. For more information, please contact your local data protection authority. (Contact details for the ICO, the UK’s data protection authority, are available here). Contact details for data protection authorities in the European Economic Area, are available here.) 9. CONTACT US a. Send us an email: info@vinehilltrust.uk . Be sure to include your name and clear instructions on what you would like us to do. b. Write to us at: Dixon Wilson, 22 Chancery Lane, London WC2A 1LS. Be sure to include your name and clear instructions on what you require. 10. UPDATES TO THIS NOTICE a. We may revise or update this policy from time to time to reflect changes in our activities or for other purposes. If we do so, we will post notice of the change on our website. b. This privacy notice was last updated 1 February 2024. Cookie Policy A cookie is a small file of letters and numbers that we store on your browser or the hard drive of your computer if you agree. Cookies contain information that is transferred to your computer’s hard drive. Our website uses cookies to distinguish you from other users of our website. This helps us to provide you with a good experience when you browse our website and also allows us to improve our site. We use the following cookies: Analytical or performance cookies. These allow us to recognise and count the number of visitors and to see how visitors move around our website when they are using it. This helps us to improve the way our website works, for example, by ensuring that users are finding what they are looking for easily. Cookie Title Universal Analytics (Google) Name _ga _gali _gat _gid Purpose These cookies are used to collect information about how visitors use our website. We use the information to compile reports and to help us improve the website. The cookies collect information in a way that does not directly identify anyone, including the number of visitors to the website and blog, where visitors have come to the website from and the pages they visited. Read Google’s overview of privacy and safeguarding data. The host of our Website, Namesco, uses cookies as part of its platform over which we have no control. For more information please see the Namesco cookie notice. You can choose which cookies we can set by clicking on the button(s): Analytical or performance cookies OFF However, if you use your browser settings to block all cookies (including essential cookies) you may not be able to access all or parts of our website. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences!