Guidelines for Heritage Applications We help fund historic building restoration projects that provide employment and training in building crafts, from stonework, joinery and ornamental plasterwork to niche crafts such as carving, marbling, graining, stucco and scagliola work, mural and fresco work, leadwork, thatching, gilding, stained glass conservation and encaustic tiling and tile restoration. The term ‘historic building’ includes twentieth century buildings of architectural interest. Alongside buildings, we welcome applications for the restoration of historic fixtures and fittings, curtilage structures and structures in designed landscapes, especially where opportunities for heritage skills training are provided. We are particularly interested in projects in less affluent areas that can act as a catalyst for socio-economic improvement. Before confirming an offer of funding, we will require information on the proposed restoration methodology and evidence that necessary permissions (such as planning and listed building consents) have been obtained. Please note that we do not consider applications: for movable heritage (such as steam trains and boats) for heritage crafts unconnected to the physical fabric of buildings and structures for buildings and structures in private ownership where there is no current or intended public access for new buildings, including extensions to historic buildings for routine repair and maintenance We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences!