Guidelines for Health Applications Who can apply We accept applications from UK-registered charities, non-profits, or CICs. Public sector organisations (e.g. NHS) may apply only in partnership with a non-profit lead. You must be seeking funds for UK projects that directly benefit UK residents and are focussed on healthcare delivery (rather than general well-being). Our focus areas Permanent focus areas We accept applications at any time for projects that address acute conditions, such as: pre-hospital care life-saving equipment/training/intervention suicide prevention services Temporary focus areas In addition to our permanent focus areas, we have temporary focus areas, covering both physical and mental health, that change each calendar year. The temporary focus areas for 2026-2028 are set out below (please note these may change to reflect evolving needs). 2026 cycle (you may apply any time from now until 30 June 2026) direct, practical health interventions for patients with long-term physical and/or intellectual disabilities trauma recovery for those with diagnosed mental health conditions 2027 cycle (you may apply any time from 1 August 2026 to 30 June 2027) rehabilitation or aftercare for physical trauma or surgery improvement of health through the creation or enhancement of green spaces 2028 cycle (apply any time from 1 August 2027 to 30 June 2028) community drug and alcohol rehabilitation programmes direct support for people facing loneliness and isolation Target beneficiaries Projects must benefit individuals with limited access to essential healthcare, including: patients with rare or under-recognised conditions as defined by the Genetic Alliance UK children and elderly with mobility limitations or post-discharge needs underserved and rural communities We prioritise individuals affected by poverty, isolation, disability or serious health disadvantage (not defined by cultural or identity-based groupings). What we don’t fund To maintain a focus on health outcomes, we do not fund: projects primarily focused on entertainment, arts or general well-being remotely delivered services with no in-person or clinical component awareness-raising or educational work without direct intervention academic research lobbying capital building works that do not support a direct health intervention Outcomes and evaluation Applicants must demonstrate: direct health need and impact (clinical and measurable) for a defined beneficiary group outcomes backed by quantitative or qualitative data compliance with relevant safeguarding and healthcare standards Funding & delivery Projects must start within twelve months of receipt of funding A clear budget and delivery plan must be submitted The project should show lasting benefit or meaningful follow-on value We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences!