The Vinehill Trust makes grants to charitable, educational and ecclesiastical organisations across the United Kingdom in three areas of special interest. Music Including projects involving children and young people that further the choral and/or organ traditions. Find out more Heritage Built heritage, including projects that involve training in heritage craft skills. Find out more Health Projects that address acute conditions, plus temporary focus areas that change each year. Find out more We typically award one-off grants of £10,000-£100,000. We assess the size of grants relative to the applicants’ overall turnover and to our available resources. We are lean and focused, applying maximum resources to charitable purposes, and we expect the same of grant recipients. We want to see that funded organisations are well governed and managed, that they have good finance and risk management systems and that they have the necessary skills and expertise to deliver their objectives. We consider applications for emergency funding only exceptionally and where we are satisfied that robust management structures are in place to ensure that our funding generates long-term value. We fund specific initiatives and projects rather than providing unrestricted funding. Please note that we do not consider applications: outside our three funding areas for retrospective funding for capital appeals for construction projects for campaigning and lobbying work where there is a reasonable expectation of public funding where beneficiaries are selected by race or ethnicity, unless there is an evidenced rationale (for example a demonstrable disposition in a particular group to a specific medical condition) for endowments from organisations with more than twelve months of unrestricted reserves, unless there is a clear reason why they are holding these for core running costs for more than 75% of the project cost from individuals from statutory bodies unless the project for which funds are sought is undertaken in partnership with a charitable body. The additionality principle must also be observed, ie the funds applied for must not replace ordinary public funding. to fund other organisations’ grant programmes from organisations based outside the UK from organisations which have applied and been rejected within the last twelve months For advice and information, please email info@vinehilltrust.uk The Vinehill Trust was established in January 2024. Details of grants awarded since then can be reviewed here or in our annual reports and accounts, which are available to view on the Register of Charities . The Vinehill Trust also funds several major existing programmes , including the Queen Elizabeth II Platinum Jubilee Commonwealth Heritage Skills Training Programme and the National Schools Singing Programme. The illustrations on this website were specially commissioned by the Vinehill Trust from the distinguished artist and illustrator John Broadley to represent our three areas of special interest: music, heritage and health. @vinehilltrust For every retweet of this post, I will donate £1 to the @VC_and_GC_Assoc up to £50,000. Time is running out following @I_W_M’s decision to close the Lord Ashcroft Gallery. Visit while you still can, to honour the bravery of those who risked so much to protect our great nation. The British Military Cemetery at Malakand, Pakistan has been restored as part of our Queen Elizabeth II Commonwealth Heritage Training Skills Programme, fully funded by the Vinehill Trust and expertly run by @CWHeritageForum Are you restoring an historic building? Last call for our summer round of heritage funding. See https://vinehilltrust.uk/heritage/ to find out if you have an eligible project. Apply by 18 July. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences!