Net zero: the fundamentals Twitter Facebook Linkedin Bluesky Events Jobs Ravi Gurumurthy About Nesta Nesta is an innovation foundation. For us, innovation means turning bold ideas into reality and changing lives for the better. We use our expertise, skills and funding in areas where there are big challenges facing society. Net zero: the fundamentals The nine fundamental facts underlying the UK's journey to net zero Isobel Scott-Barrett Isobel Scott-Barrett Head of Delivery, UK 2040 Options Isobel worked on the design and delivery of Nesta's strategy. Tom Leach Tom Leach Senior Policy Advisor (net zero), Rapid Insights Team Tom is senior policy advisor for net zero in the Rapid Insights Team. Net zero: the fundamentals Downloads The UK was the first country to set ambitious net zero targets and is the first major economy to halve its emissions , driven largely by power sector decarbonisation. But it is off-track to meet all future carbon budgets and targets. View chart on Nesta website Image Description Reducing emissions matters: it is the only way to keep global temperatures within liveable limits and mitigate climate damages. Human-induced warming is already on track to blow past 1.5° Celsius above pre-industrial levels, to surpass 2ºC by 2040, and has the potential to reach 4ºC by 2100 when a child born today reaches old age. To understand the UK’s successes to date and factors which will shape its trajectory to 2040, when a child born today comes of age, we explore the fundamental facts a next government will inherit when it comes to net zero. Understanding that the UK’s electricity grid needs to be substantially expanded to decarbonise sectors such as transport, heat and industry tees up choices for a next government about planning, the role of the market and capital investment. Digging into the shift in the energy sector’s economics, from high operational costs to higher capital investment and lower running costs, means you can engage with choices about industrial strategy and the role of the public and private sectors. And understanding what the public think about climate change policies and how different parts of government do and don’t work together means you can assess where to invest time and resources into engagement and governance. View chart on Nesta website Image Description Such is the scale of change needed to transition to a net zero economy and society, it can be easy to focus on single sectors, levers of change, constraints or opportunities. This set of facts is intended to paint a wider picture and to provide a jumping off point for those seeking to navigate the policy space. For more detail, you can explore the choices the next UK Government will need to grapple with and Nesta’s work on home decarbonisation specifically . Authors Isobel Scott-Barrett Isobel Scott-Barrett Head of Delivery, UK 2040 Options Isobel worked on the design and delivery of Nesta's strategy. Tom Leach Tom Leach Senior Policy Advisor (net zero), Rapid Insights Team Tom is senior policy advisor for net zero in the Rapid Insights Team. Stay up to date Stay up to date Join our mailing list to receive the Nesta edit: your first look at the latest insights, opportunities and analysis from Nesta and the innovation sector. * denotes a required field You can unsubscribe by clicking the link in our emails where indicated, or emailing [email protected] . Or you can update your contact preferences . We promise to keep your details safe and secure. We won’t share your details outside of Nesta without your permission. Find out more about how we use personal information in our Privacy Policy .