Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Vital support for victims in £20 million funding boost Thousands more victims to access life-saving support through a £19.9 million investment in specialist services. Minister Jess Phillips on a visit to Refuge, a charity supporting victims of domestic abuse Thousands more victims of domestic abuse, sexual violence, ‘honour’-based abuse and stalking will have access to specialist support services thanks to a boost of nearly £20 million announced by the Safeguarding Minister today. Part of this funding will go towards backing helplines which can offer potentially life-saving support for survivors of abuse. Victims can find these experiences incredibly hard to talk about and contacting helplines for advice is often the first critical step in their journey to escape abuse, access vital support and eventually seek justice. To help more victims access support at the most vulnerable moments in their lives, a range of helplines supporting victims of domestic abuse, sexual violence, ‘honour’-based abuse and stalking will benefit from £6 million in investment this year – an increase of around a fifth compared to the previous year. This investment is designed to reach as many different communities as possible and will bolster a range of vital specialist services in England and Wales supporting victims and survivors who face unique and challenging circumstances. Nine helplines across 8 charities, including: Refuge who run the National Domestic Abuse helpline; Hourglass, a charity supporting older victims; SignHealth who support victims who are Deaf; Galop; The Suzy Lamplugh Trust; Karma Nirvana; and Respect will receive funding to continue providing vital helpline services to victims, recruit more staff and support more victims escaping abuse. Minister for Safeguarding and Violence against Women and Girls, Jess Phillips said: No victim should ever feel abandoned when trying to escape abuse. But the harsh reality is that too many do – especially those from marginalised communities who face significant additional hurdles. Last week, I met survivors who felt the system wasn’t built for people like them. I hope this funding will change that. It’s about smashing down barriers and making sure every single person facing abuse has somewhere to turn when they make the brave decision to seek help. The funding package announced today also includes £5.3 million for services supporting children affected by domestic abuse, who are often the hidden victims of this devastating crime, to support them through one-to-one and group counselling, classroom-based assistance and help for their non-abusive parents across 8 specialist services nationwide. Charity Southall Black Sisters will receive £2.4 million to support migrant victims of abuse who are not able to access public funds. And to give victims direct access to financial support to escape abusive relationships, a wide range of specialist domestic abuse services will receive around £2 million through the Women’s Aid Flexible Fund. Through the fund, organisations across England and Wales, including Welsh Women’s Aid, will give payments of up to £500 to help victims secure safety and one-off payments of up to £2,500 for deposits for rental accommodation to help secure sustainable and independent futures. This is underscored by £2.5 million for projects to help prevent and improve the response to violence and abuse against women and girls, raise awareness of these issues and protect victims who are at risk. The government was elected on a mission to make our streets safer for everyone as part of the Prime Minister’s Plan for Change. Today’s announcement marks a vital step in our pledge to halve violence against women and girls in a decade, ensuring victims of these appalling crimes have somewhere to turn and the support they need to recover from abuse. Domestic Abuse Commissioner, Dame Nicole Jacobs, said: Whether fearing for their lives or growing up in a home filled with stress and anxiety, victims should feel confident that support will be there to help them recover, but sadly too often this isn’t the case. This funding for struggling specialist domestic abuse services, especially those supporting children, will bring much needed relief to survivors and services, who have been doing all they can to ensure help is there for people during one of their most vulnerable moments in life. Tackling domestic abuse requires drive, ambition and political will. I look forward to seeing how the government’s forthcoming violence against women and girls’ strategy builds on this investment by ensuring every victim and survivor gets what they need – exactly when they need it – so they can recover from abuse. Last week, the Minister for Safeguarding visited Refuge’s headquarters to meet with charity leaders and victims and discuss the unique challenges facing vulnerable individuals and harder to reach communities when they seek help. She also saw the National Domestic Abuse helpline in action and spoke to call handlers about the vital work they do. CEO of Refuge, Gemma Sherrington said: The National Domestic Abuse Helpline, operated by Refuge, offers a lifeline for thousands of survivors every year. Open 7 days a week and 365 days a year, the support given by the helpline often represents the first step towards a life free from abuse and fear. We are incredibly grateful for this much-needed funding boost, which will sustain this vital service for the coming year. Rather than covering the running costs of the helpline, our fundraised resources can now be directed towards supporting survivors, while bringing us one step closer to a world where domestic abuse is not tolerated. The funding will also allow us to extend our live chat hours and make accessibility improvements to the helpline website, meaning we can reach more survivors than ever before. Esther*, a survivor of domestic abuse supported by Refuge, said: Funding for domestic abuse services is not only vital but absolutely necessary. Domestic abuse, in all its shapes, is still very much a problem and I’m hearing more and more tragic stories than ever before. Funding is needed for not only the aftercare for victims/survivors but also for the services that provide advice and support for people that are fleeing abuse. The transition from deciding to leave and actually leaving is one of the scariest experiences and it’s important that support and guidance is on hand. I know for certain that without help from these services, my story would have ended very differently, and I would not be here to talk at all. They gave me the courage and opportunity to live and smile again. I will always be forever grateful. Alongside Raneem’s Law, with domestic abuse specialists embedded in the first 999 control rooms across the country, this £19.9 million investment will help ensure that wherever victims of these crimes reach out for help – whether to police or charities – they will receive a specialist response tailored to their needs. This announcement follows a £13.1 million investment in a new policing centre to tackle violence against women and girls and enable police to better target these crimes, an uplift of nearly £2 million. Nikita Kanda, broadcaster and Refuge ambassador, said: I welcome today’s announcement of almost £20 million in funding for a range of vital and specialist services including Refuge’s National Domestic Abuse helpline. With this investment we will be able to strengthen our commitment to support all communities and empower those enduring domestic violence. Tanisha Jnagel, Head of Helplines at Respect, said: Respect is extremely pleased that the Home Office has recognised the need to fund a wide range of support for victims of domestic abuse, including helplines, which are often the first port of call when seeking advice. This new funding will help us to increase our capacity and reach more contacts in need of immediate advice and support. We will employ more advisors to respond to our callers and ensure male victims, their children, and those supporting them have information about their options and can be signposted to vital services to keep them safe from further harm. As the government prepares to deliver its new strategy, Respect is keen to see it take a long-term, cross-departmental approach that includes responding to perpetrators as part of a whole system approach to ending domestic abuse for good – with funding to match the scale of the problem. Farah Nazeer, Chief Executive of Women’s Aid, said: Specialist domestic abuse helplines, including those run by our member services, provide vital support to countless survivors of domestic abuse on a daily basis. Women’s Aid welcomes plans to boost funding for these essential lifelines, as we know that this uplift will help to ensure that as many women as possible are able to receive the support they urgently need and deserve. We are pleased that the Flexible Fund, which provides survivors with essential funds to flee abuse and remain fled, is going to be continued, as we know from its exceptionally high demand that it is needed. The successful delivery of this fund relies on the trust that has been built between survivors and our network of member services and delivery partners, who administer this support as part of their work. Decades of chronic underfunding has left many specialist service providers at breaking point, and we need to see sustainable funding commitments being made to a wide range of service provisions across the sector. This includes children and young people specific services, community-based support, refuges, and more. Veronica Gray, Deputy CEO and Director of Policy at Hourglass, said: This funding is a crucial recognition that older victim-survivors of abuse must not be left behind. At Hourglass, through our 24/7 helpline, we hear daily from older people who feel invisible and unheard when they try to seek help. And calls are coming in faster than ever – tens of thousands more than just a few years ago. Strengthening our helpline means we can be there at that critical moment – to listen, support and guide people toward safety. We are grateful for this investment in safer futures for some of society’s most overlooked survivors as we work towards creating a Safer Ageing Society by 2050. Share this page The following links open in a new tab Share on Facebook (opens in new tab) Share on Twitter (opens in new tab) Updates to this page 13 May 2025 Additional quotes added. Additional quotes added. 12 May 2025 First published. First published. Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab ) .