Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Apply for communication support at a job interview if you have a disability or health condition (Access to Work) You can apply to Access to Work to get money for communication support at a job interview. Overview You can apply to Access to Work to get money for communication support at a job interview. The money pays for a communication support worker to go to your job interview with you. You can use this service if you: are Deaf or hard of hearing and need a British Sign Language interpreter or lipspeaker have a physical or mental health condition or learning difficulty and need communication support You need to apply before the interview takes place and tell us the total cost of the communication support you’ll need. For help with finding communication support and getting costs, you can contact your employment adviser or an organisation that specialises in supporting people with your needs. We pay the costs after the job interview has taken place. The money does not have to be paid back and will not affect your other benefits. This guide is also available in British Sign Language ( BSL ) . There’s a different system in Northern Ireland . Eligibility To get communication support at a job interview you must: have a health condition or disability which means you need communication support at job interviews be 16 or over live in England, Scotland or Wales have an interview date for a paid job or apprenticeship in England, Scotland or Wales, or a Department for Education supported internship When you cannot apply You cannot apply if: you live in the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man your job interview has already taken place the interview is for a volunteer role you’re attending a job induction or job review Apply Check you’re eligible before you apply. You can apply for communication support at a job interview online or by phone. What you’ll need to provide You’ll need to tell us: the name of the company your job interview is with the date of your job interview how long your job interview is expected to last the name and contact details for someone at the company – we’ll only contact this person after your job interview to confirm it has taken place You’ll also need to tell us the total cost of your communication support at the job interview. Ask the person providing your support to include: support worker costs support worker travel costs administration costs VAT Apply online Apply by phone You can apply by calling the Access to Work helpline. Make sure you have all the necessary details with you when you call. Access to Work helpline Telephone: 0800 121 7479 Relay UK (if you cannot hear or speak on the phone): 18001 then 0800 121 7479 Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm Find out about call charges British Sign Language ( BSL ) video relay service To use this you must: first check you can use the service go to the video relay service Monday to Friday, 8am to 7:30pm Alternative formats Call the Access to Work number to ask for alternative formats, such as braille, large print or audio CD. Complaints You can contact Access to Work to complain if you are not happy with how your case has been handled. After you’ve applied An adviser will tell you the decision, using your preferred contact method, within 2 working days. We’ll post you confirmation and a claim form. Once we’ve agreed to pay for your communication support, you can book your support worker for the job interview, if you haven’t already. When your job interview has taken place, payment can be claimed. This needs to include the invoice. You’ll need to sign the claim form to confirm it’s okay. Access to Work will pay the claim if the invoice cost matches the cost you told us when you applied. Updates to this page 8 October 2025 Removed textphone details - Relay UK can be used instead. Removed textphone details - Relay UK can be used instead. 28 May 2021 Added a link to the British Sign Language (BSL) version of the guide. Added a link to the British Sign Language (BSL) version of the guide. 3 July 2019 Added translation Added translation Sign up for emails or print this page Related content Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab ) .