Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Find contact details for services Universal Credit Contact the Universal Credit team to get help with applying for Universal Credit or managing your claim. Contact the Universal Credit team to get help with applying for Universal Credit or managing your claim. Driving licences and car tax Contact DVLA for questions about driving, vehicle tax and registrations. Contact DVLA for questions about driving, vehicle tax and registrations. HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) Contact HMRC for questions about tax, including self assessment and PAYE. Contact HMRC for questions about tax, including self assessment and PAYE. Passport advice and complaints Get help with your passport application and renewals if you're a British Citizen. Get help with your passport application and renewals if you're a British Citizen. Student Finance England Get help with student loan applications and grants. Get help with student loan applications and grants. Jobcentre Plus Get advice on benefits such as Jobseeker's Allowance (JSA). Get advice on benefits such as Jobseeker's Allowance (JSA). UK Visas and Immigration Contact UK Visas and Immigration about your application. Contact UK Visas and Immigration about your application. Report Fraud Contact Action Fraud to report fraud and cyber crime, or to tell them you've been the victim of a scam. Contact Action Fraud to report fraud and cyber crime, or to tell them you've been the victim of a scam. Child Benefit Contact the Child Benefit Office to report a change of circumstance, get your Child Benefit number, or make a general enquiry. Contact the Child Benefit Office to report a change of circumstance, get your Child Benefit number, or make a general enquiry. Department for Transport (DfT) Contact Department for Transport and transport agencies. Contact Department for Transport and transport agencies. DBS checks (previously CRB) Contact the Disclosure and Barring Service with questions about checks needed for certain types of paid and voluntary work. Contact the Disclosure and Barring Service with questions about checks needed for certain types of paid and voluntary work. Driving tests and vehicle testing Contact the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA) for information about driving tests or vehicle testing schemes, activities and enforcement policy or general driving and vehicle safety advice. Contact the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA) for information about driving tests or vehicle testing schemes, activities and enforcement policy or general driving and vehicle safety advice. Overseas British Passport applications Get advice with renewing or applying for a British passport if you live overseas. Get advice with renewing or applying for a British passport if you live overseas. State Pension Contact the Pension Service to get help claiming your State Pension, helps with State Pension eligibility, claims and payments. You can also make a complaint about the Pension Service. Contact the Pension Service to get help claiming your State Pension, helps with State Pension eligibility, claims and payments. You can also make a complaint about the Pension Service. Tax credits Get advice on tax credits and tell HMRC about changes to your address, job or salary. Get advice on tax credits and tell HMRC about changes to your address, job or salary. Use the GOV.UK contact form to send your questions or comments about the website. Check the GOV.UK help pages to find out about the use of cookies, accessibility of the site, the privacy policy and terms and conditions of use.