Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Student finance: how to apply Change an application You must say if any details in your application change. You’ll need to report some changes yourself. Your parents, partner or sponsor will need to report others. Changes you must report You must tell Student Finance England if: you’ve changed your course, university or college you’re repeating a year you’ve changed your name or marital status your Tuition Fee Loan amount has changed you’re living somewhere new If the year you applied for has started Ask your university or college to tell Student Finance England if you change or repeat your course or change your Tuition Fee Loan. You’ll still need to contact Student Finance England yourself if you’ve changed your name or marital status or you’re living somewhere new. How to report changes to Student Finance England How you report changes depends on whether you study full or part time and the type of funding you get. There’s a different process if you’ve changed your name or marital status. If you’re a full-time student Use your student finance account to tell Student Finance England about changes. If you’re a part-time student You’ll need to fill in form CO2 to tell Student Finance England about changes. Use your student finance account to send the form to Student Finance England, or send it by post. The address is on the form. If you’re only eligible for a Tuition Fee Loan If you’re only eligible for a Tuition Fee Loan and not a Maintenance Loan (tuition fee only funding), you’ll need to fill in form EUCO1 to tell Student Finance England about changes. Send the form to Student Finance England by post. The address is on the form. If you’ve changed your name or marital status You must write and tell Student Finance England if you’ve changed your name or marital status. The letter must include: your customer reference number ( CRN ) the date your signature evidence that you’ve changed your name or marital status If you’ve changed your name, you must include a copy of one of the following with your letter: marriage certificate final or conditional order decree absolute change of name deed poll If you’ve changed your marital status, you must include a copy of one of the following with your letter: marriage certificate final or conditional order decree absolute civil partnership final order Use your student finance account to send the letter and evidence to Student Finance England, or send it by post Student Finance England PO Box 210 Darlington DL1 9HJ If you cannot provide the right document, contact Student Finance England . Changes your parents, partner or sponsor must report If your household income changes Your parents or partner must: correct any mistakes relating to their household income - they can use form PFF2 tell Student Finance England if they think their household income will be at least 15% lower than the tax year they submitted details for If your parents or sponsor have another child Your parents or sponsor must tell Student Finance England if they have any more children. They can use form PFF2 . Part of Get undergraduate student finance: step by step Step 1 : Check if you're eligible for student finance If you’re from England or outside the UK, check if you're eligible There’s a different process if: you're from Scotland you're from Wales you're from Northern Ireland you're from Jersey you're from Guernsey you're from Isle of Man Step 1 : Check if you're eligible for student finance If you’re from England or outside the UK, check if you're eligible There’s a different process if: you're from Scotland you're from Wales you're from Northern Ireland you're from Jersey you're from Guernsey you're from Isle of Man Step 2 : Find out how much loan you could get You may be able to apply for: a Tuition Fee Loan to help pay your course tuition fees a Maintenance Loan to help with your living costs Find out how much you could get if you're a: new full-time student continuing full-time student part-time student student who started before 1 August 2016 How much Maintenance Loan you get depends on where you'll study and your household income. Use the student finance calculator to estimate your Maintenance Loan You'll have to pay back any loan you get. Find out how much you'll repay Find out when you'll start repaying Step 2 : Find out how much loan you could get You may be able to apply for: a Tuition Fee Loan to help pay your course tuition fees a Maintenance Loan to help with your living costs Find out how much you could get if you're a: new full-time student continuing full-time student part-time student student who started before 1 August 2016 How much Maintenance Loan you get depends on where you'll study and your household income. Use the student finance calculator to estimate your Maintenance Loan You'll have to pay back any loan you get. Find out how much you'll repay Find out when you'll start repaying and Check if you can get extra help You might be able to get extra money if you: are under 25, have no contact with your parents and support yourself pay for childcare are a full-time student with children have an adult who depends on you financially have a disability, mental or physical health problem or learning difficulty like dyslexia You might also be able to get other financial help, for example from your university or the government. Find out about extra help and Check if you can get extra help You might be able to get extra money if you: are under 25, have no contact with your parents and support yourself pay for childcare are a full-time student with children have an adult who depends on you financially have a disability, mental or physical health problem or learning difficulty like dyslexia You might also be able to get other financial help, for example from your university or the government. Find out about extra help Step 3 : Prepare your application Check when you can apply Check what ID you'll need Check if you need to give proof of your household income Step 3 : Prepare your application Check when you can apply Check what ID you'll need Check if you need to give proof of your household income Step 4 : Apply or reapply You can apply online or by post depending on the type of student finance you’re eligible for. If you apply in the wrong way, it could delay your application. Find out how to apply It takes 4 weeks to process your application. You might have to provide extra evidence. Step 4 : Apply or reapply You can apply online or by post depending on the type of student finance you’re eligible for. If you apply in the wrong way, it could delay your application. Find out how to apply It takes 4 weeks to process your application. You might have to provide extra evidence. Step 5 : Update your details if your circumstances change You must update your application if your circumstances change. For example if you: change your course through clearing change where you're going to live - for example with your parents instead of halls You are currently viewing: Find out how to update your application Step 5 : Update your details if your circumstances change You must update your application if your circumstances change. For example if you: change your course through clearing change where you're going to live - for example with your parents instead of halls You are currently viewing: Find out how to update your application Step 6 : Make sure you can be paid After you register at your university or college you'll usually get your Maintenance Loan paid directly into your bank account at the start of each term. Use your student finance account to: update your bank details - for example if you open a student account check how much you'll be paid check when you'll be paid Sign in to your student finance account Tuition Fee Loans are paid directly to your university or college. Step 6 : Make sure you can be paid After you register at your university or college you'll usually get your Maintenance Loan paid directly into your bank account at the start of each term. Use your student finance account to: update your bank details - for example if you open a student account check how much you'll be paid check when you'll be paid Sign in to your student finance account Tuition Fee Loans are paid directly to your university or college. Step 7 : Check what to do while you're studying You'll need to reapply for student finance for each year of your course. You must keep your details up to date throughout your course because some changes can affect your loan payments, for example if your household income or bank details change. You are currently viewing: Check how to update your details Find out what to do if you suspend or leave your course Step 7 : Check what to do while you're studying You'll need to reapply for student finance for each year of your course. You must keep your details up to date throughout your course because some changes can affect your loan payments, for example if your household income or bank details change. You are currently viewing: Check how to update your details Find out what to do if you suspend or leave your course Step 8 : Check what to do when you stop studying When you stop studying the Student Loans Company (SLC) will create a student loans repayment account for you. The log in details will be the same as for your student finance account. You should check your contact details are correct. Sign in to your student loan repayment account You must update your employment details if: you leave the UK for more than 3 months SLC asks you to update them Update your employment details Step 8 : Check what to do when you stop studying When you stop studying the Student Loans Company (SLC) will create a student loans repayment account for you. The log in details will be the same as for your student finance account. You should check your contact details are correct. Sign in to your student loan repayment account You must update your employment details if: you leave the UK for more than 3 months SLC asks you to update them Update your employment details Step 9 : Repay your loan The repayment plan you're on will determine when you start repaying and how much you repay. Check which repayment plan you’re on Find out how much you'll repay Find out when you'll start repaying Find out how to repay Step 9 : Repay your loan The repayment plan you're on will determine when you start repaying and how much you repay. Check which repayment plan you’re on Find out how much you'll repay Find out when you'll start repaying Find out how to repay Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab ) .