What we do Community Fund Brighter Futures Through the Gate Partner Grants Thematic Grants Proactive Grants Community Fund Brighter Futures Through the Gate Partner Grants Thematic Grants Proactive Grants About us Making grants since 1969 Trustees Staff and advisors Our legacy Annual reports Contact us CFCT awards 2019 Making grants since 1969 Trustees Staff and advisors Our legacy Annual reports Contact us CFCT awards 2019 Our funding What we fund How to apply What makes a good application What we don’t fund Grant terms and conditions Reporting back What we fund How to apply What makes a good application What we don’t fund Grant terms and conditions Reporting back FAQs Recent grants Recent grants Grants list Recent grants Grants list Our Platform What makes a good application Clear information about your organisation’s finances It is important that you provide the requested financial information and that the figures mirror those in the most recent published accounts. Please tell us if your organisation is experiencing or expecting any financial difficulties, if it has made a deficit in the last couple of years or it expects to make a deficit in the current year. This will not automatically exclude your organisation from receiving funding and, in certain circumstances, may enhance the chance of receiving an award. Please attach your latest management accounts if they provide a clearer picture of your current financial situation than the published accounts. Please ensure that you tell us how much your organisation has in free reserves. If your organisation has free reserves over and above the grant amount being requested, please tell us why you will not be using these reserves instead a grant. Please ensure that you are clear about what constitutes unrestricted reserves before completing the application. You can find a list of useful definitions, including unrestricted reserves, here Please explain and address anything in the published accounts or management accounts that you think may cause confusion or raise concerns. This may include losses of major funding, a deficit position on the balance sheet, etc. You should note that CFCT will not accept applications from organisations that do not have at least two years of published accounts, unless they have secured permission from us beforehand. A budget showing how any funding will be allocated You should submit a budget, in a Word table or Excel spreadsheet, that specifically details what any grant awarded will pay for. Please ensure that the budget submitted corresponds with the information provided in the main application and shows how the funds applied for will be allocated. Please ensure that the budget adds up to the amount requested. If the funding from CFCT will not cover the entire cost of delivery, the budget should show this and highlight any previously secured funding along with any shortfall. Evidence of Kent-based delivery All funding awarded by the Trust must benefit people in Kent so please ensure that you provide evidence of this in your application. If you are an organisation that operates outside Kent and are applying for core costs, you will need to explain how any funding awarded will be ringfenced for use in Kent. Please note that CFCT does not fund organisations operating in London Boroughs, even if those boroughs were formally in Kent. A clear description of what your organisation does You should describe what the purpose of your organisation is and the activities it delivers. You should show what difference your organisation makes to the lives of people in Kent and how you know that your work is effective. The Trust is keen to support the most vulnerable and marginalised people in Kent and your application should identify how your organisation addresses this key point. This is particularly important where your organisation’s remit is quite wide. How your organisation involves service users People with ‘lived experience’ are often well placed to help organisations to provide the most effective service. The Trust is keen to hear how your organisation involves service users. How your organisation will use any award Please be very clear about what you will use any funding for and the need that you will be addressing. You should show what difference a grant will make to your organisation’s ability to deliver services to vulnerable/socially excluded people in Kent. Ensure that you detail why the Trust should fund your organisation and what makes it best placed to provide support to vulnerable communities in the county. Extra priority will be given to organisations that can show they: work in a very deprived area or with people who are particularly disadvantaged have limited access to other sources of income can demonstrate partnership working. Strong, measurable outcomes You will be asked to list three key, measurable outcomes which will be used to assess the impact of any funding awarded. The best outcomes are usually clear and simple ones that don’t over-promise but relate to the proposed use of the grant. Communicates the passion of those involved We’re not looking for a perfect submission. Often the best applications are written from the heart and really communicate the commitment and passion of all those involved in running the organisation. Whilst AI is helpful and can save valuable time, if you chose to use it please review your proposal before sending to us to ensure it portrays the true essence of your organisation. We are here to help We will do all that we can to support you during your application process. If you have any questions, please contact us at grantadmin@cfct.org.uk Contact us Privacy Statement Press © 2018 Colyer-Fergusson Charitable Trust | all rights reserved | Registered Charity 258958