What we do Community Fund Brighter Futures Through the Gate Partner Grants Thematic Grants Proactive Grants Community Fund Brighter Futures Through the Gate Partner Grants Thematic Grants Proactive Grants About us Making grants since 1969 Trustees Staff and advisors Our legacy Annual reports Contact us CFCT awards 2019 Making grants since 1969 Trustees Staff and advisors Our legacy Annual reports Contact us CFCT awards 2019 Our funding What we fund How to apply What makes a good application What we don’t fund Grant terms and conditions Reporting back What we fund How to apply What makes a good application What we don’t fund Grant terms and conditions Reporting back FAQs Recent grants Recent grants Grants list Recent grants Grants list Our Platform Recent grants Funding for a Support Manager and counselling at Break the Cycle, a supported accommodation project in Kent for those released from prison into street homelessness Supporting and empowering families impacted by imprisonment in Kent. To embed and expand Fine Cell Work’s crafts training into more Kent prisons. To fund 'Through the Gates' mentoring and peer support for Kent-based ex-offenders needing help to become self-employed as part of their rehabilitation. Core support for salaries for vital personnel to provide key wellbeing services at Monkton Nature Reserve to families in Thanet and east Kent. Funding to provide comprehensive family support services and parent groups for families of disabled children, addressing a range of challenges. To meet the increased demand for the service and its expansion further into Kent and acquire resources to help young people understand/manage grief/bereavement. To share cooking, healthy eating, growing skills & budget management, to create long term, positive impact on families who are experiencing poverty and debt. .Joint Application from Canterbury District Food Community Food organisation for purchasing and distributing food to the most deprived wards in the district. To support children and young people with life-limiting conditions, and their families, through respite care, life-enhancing therapies and long-term support for the family. To provide charity leaders across Kent and Medway with free strategic mentoring to help them deliver sustainable support services to vulnerable people within their communities. Provision of a gardening and handyman service for elderly people living in deprivation. Funding to expand the Sevenoaks and Tonbridge Information & Advice service into Maidstone. Support individual needs of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged families by increasing skills and confidence to improve people’s life chances and promote social cohesion. To replicate the success of the CFCT funded mentoring support delivered at the Gravesham Hub in the Swale District. To provide disadvantaged youth with tailored support: one-to-one mentoring, counselling, family support and improve academic and vocational outcomes. To maintain and grow the successful Hang 10 “Walk it” programme and employability work for young people aged between 14 and 25. A funding pool for 15 young entrepreneurs on the Isle of Sheppey, offering start-up grants, mentorship, and co-working space access. To work with 11-16 year-old female survivors of domestic abuse to make informed choices around their relationships, safety, and the impact abuse has on their lives. To deliver quality Youth Provision in a safe-space for Young-People who are disadvantaged & living in Real deprivation. To run low cost 6 week courses of equine learning for a group of challenged young individuals that need skills to progress in their lives throughout the year. A work-based opportunity for 12 young people to receive 40 weeks of onsite education, learning & NVQ Hairdressing qualifications led by professionals. Support for young people attending A&E in Kent and Surrey because of self-harm or suicide attempt, with immediate, relational follow up support as a 'bridge of crisis'. To fund a Team Leader to deliver a new core curriculum of employment workshops. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity that provides support to people who have suffered bereavement. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity that provides support to people who have suffered bereavement. A Stabilising grant towards rent at this charity that works with young people who have mental health issues and are excluded or are at risk of exclusion from school or who have additional educational needs. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this volunteer led community radio station that targets older listeners, promoting the benefits of a healthy lifestyle. A Delivering grant towards the provision of pyjamas to disadvantaged children in hospitals, hospices and women's refuges in Kent. A Stabilising grant towards IT and website costs at this volunteer led, not for profit community radio station that works to engage vulnerable and under-represented communities. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this newly formed CIC that works to support the Eastern European Roma communities in Kent and build bridges between diverse backgrounds. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this mental health and suicide prevention charity that uses sport to support mental fitness. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity that brings music and arts opportunities to a deprived part of Kent. An Extending grant supporting this check in and chat charity towards sustainability. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity that delivers a range of activities and job support services for local disadvantaged people and refugees. A Delivering grant towards peer support group costs at this charity supporting adopters and prospective adopters. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this charity working to improve the mental health of neurodivergent people. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this forest school engaging socially marginalised and vulnerable families and individuals. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity providing support and activities for local vulnerable and isolated people. An Extending grant towards developing a pilot project at this CIC delivering programmes aimed at preventing children going into care. A Delivering grant towards project costs at this charity providing music sessions aimed at the elderly, isolated and those suffering from dementia. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity providing a range of support to those most in need. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this organisation providing music based activities for the elderly. An Extending grant towards the creation of a business and fundraising strategy at this arts organisation providing opportunities for a range of socially excluded groups. A Stabilising grant towards rent at this CIC providing support and emergency food for vulnerable people. A Stabilising grant towards rent at this charity providing baby care items to young, socially excluded, mothers. An Extending grant towards improving accessibility and sustainability at this community hub. An Extending grant towards the cost of employing an apprentice at this rapidly growing organisation providing physical activity opportunities for socially excluded groups. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this small CIC offering therapeutic gardening experiences to SEN students. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity offering a range of arts based opportunities to socially excluded young people. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity providing support to small non-profit organisations through the provision of experienced mentors. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this small CIC providing health and wellbeing creative projects aimed at older people. A Delivering grant awarded to this small charity funding wellness workshops for socially excluded children, young people and carers affected by Sickle Cell Disease Continuation of information, advice and support service for unemployed minoritised groups and with mental health difficulties. To empower young people with criminal convictions through self-employment support, thus reducing their risk of reoffending. Continued support for the 'Community Outreach' work driving down the numbers of young people who enter the criminal justice system. Towards ‘Readconnect’ which uses storytelling and literacy-building activities to support women with children in HMP/YOI East Sutton. Tunbridge Wells Resettlement Plus’ supporting those who are homeless, in recovery from addiction and at risk of offending To provide training, employment and resettlement support to women in the last year of their custodial sentence. Letter-writing, storytelling and animation project with prison inmates and their children. Family Support Worker: expand workforce and provide a more holistic service to vulnerable families ‘Mum’s Voice’ project: to help refine and grow a holistic package of support for disadvantaged mums and their families across Kent. Family Therapeutics supporting health and wellbeing issues impacting local Maidstone families and delivering tailored support. To extend family services to provide more holistic support. Pilot programme to prescribe movement (exercise) for low-income families in Gravesend in collaboration with local GP practises and Canterbury Christ Church University. To increase capacity to advise and support disadvantaged families in Thanet, enabling them with knowledge and confidence to move forward. Pilot programme for parent carers, with telephone support and group workshops Creative Lab creative learning programme supporting teenagers who have suffered trauma and looked-after teenagers, back into regular school 'Retrain for a Restart’ project tackling youth unemployment in Thanet with bespoke 1:1 support, interactive sessions, and vocational training. To support 14–25-year-olds living in or leaving care to improve their access to employment, education or training. To secure the continuation of free youth filmmaking workshops in an area of high deprivation offering pathways to careers for those who discover talents. Creative technology programme for young people from disadvantaged backgrounds to develop skills, experience and pathways to employment Employability skills for young people with a learning disability through bespoke training to build their confidence, independence and wellbeing. A Stabilising grant at this new youth-led, not-for-profit organisation based on the Isle of Sheppey, dedicated to improving the mental health and wellbeing of young people aged 11-25. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this organisation supporting young people aged 13-27 by providing creative opportunities in filmmaking, music production and social media promotion, covering issues such as domestic violence and peer pressure. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this CIC that aims to fight loneliness, isolation and improve community cohesion. An Extending grant towards development of a strategic and fundraising plan at this inclusive dance organisation delivering high quality dance with and for people with learning disabilities in East Kent. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this organisation operating a ‘give what you can’ community café and pop-up events supporting people who are lonely, isolated, suffering from mental ill health and those with special needs. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this small charity providing support to people suffering from isolation. A Stabilising grant towards core salary and utility costs at this small charity working across Medway and Chatham providing crisis support to people suffering from isolation and poverty. A Stabilising grant towards the CEO's salary costs at this charity providing a range of activities and opportunities for young people. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this youth organisation that provides sporting activity, advice and guidance for vulnerable young people. A Delivering grant towards project costs at this CIC supporting the annual carnival in Margate. An Extending grant towards IT, website and marketing costs at this charity working to improve the quality of life for older people and other marginalised communities. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this organisation providing training, activities and opportunities to a deprived community. A Stabilising grant toward core salary costs at this organisation providing employment and skills development opportunities in a deprived region of Kent. A Delivering grant towards project costs at this charity providing opportunities for local young people. A Stabilising grant towards rent at this organisation providing activities and support for socially excluded and marginalised young people. A Stabilising grant towards core costs at this organisation providing access to food, companionship and skills development opportunities as part of a healthy ageing project. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity providing shelter and support to the homeless of Maidstone. A Delivering grant towards programme costs at this charity providing frontline specialist support service for women involved in prostitution and all forms of sexual violence and exploitation. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this healthy living centre. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this CIC providing support to those with physical disability, sensory impairment and neuro-diverse conditions. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this small non-profit group set up to support people in Medway who have faced loss and bereavement. Mentor support. To distribute emergency welfare grants to people affected by imprisonment in Kent. To deliver a Healthy Relationship Program in HMP Sutton Park, in the year the female prisoners are to be released. A creative development programme with prisoners at two prisons in Swale, aiming to improve employability opportunities, support rehabilitation and rebuild family relationships. Support for vulnerable and disadvantaged people from Kent and Medway, through churches and volunteers. Funding to provide innovative, sustainable solutions to families experiencing food insecurity. To provide support for parents, carers and guardians who are experiencing abuse from their child (minor and adult aged) within Kent. To fund a staff member who will carry out and coordinate long-term casework support for families with debt, mental health, fleeing domestic violence and/or with illnesses/disabilities. A three- year outreach advice service across Dover district for families in financial crisis. To enable the charity to work with Roma families in Margate. To provide practical and emotional support to disadvantaged families who are struggling to cope. To deliver and further develop the FutureMe programme in Kent, empowering 300 young people to transition from school to work. For a creative open access intervention for 14–19-year-olds in Thanet, countering disadvantage they experience in this area of high deprivation. Living wage for trainees on supported work training and placements for vulnerable 18-24 year old NEETs. Extra-curricular water rowing provision with a focus on life skills development to disadvantaged students in schools around Gravesham. Core running costs for a charity supporting children and young people across Maidstone, Medway and Swale through educational and engaging activities in primary and secondary schools. Young Carers Weekly Paint Jam - to fund 2 project workers over 3 years to support and inspire disadvantaged young people living in Dover. Funding to broaden and develop work with young people aged 16 and above who have poor mental health. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this Charity that works with children affected by domestic abuse. An Extending grant towards developing partnerships and achieving Arts Council England National Portfolio status for this female led arts organisation that works to promote equality and diversity. A Delivering grant to cover the costs of a programme of activities at this small CIC that works to support people with poor mental health and isolation. A Delivering grant for this small community group towards a range of costs associated with activities designed to alleviate loneliness and isolation. An Extending grant towards a strategic planning process at this participatory arts organisation that works with marginalised groups. A Delivering grant towards supporting this small Kent based charity's Kent School Shoes Project, which will provide 500 pairs of new school shoes to community organisations/schools for families experiencing poverty. A Stabilising grant towards running costs at this small CIC providing online and in person mental wellbeing support, aimed at the LGBTQIA+ community, but open to all. A Stabilising grant towards utility costs at this Chatham based church community centre which provides food, washing facilities, clothing and support to people who are homeless, vulnerable and at the margins of the community. An Extending grant towards the cost of a Development Worker at this charity that brings local churches together to support the community including families, refugees and homeless people. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs for this organisation that provides advice to help people overcome their problems. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this small charity that operates as a resource for local people, especially those from traditionally marginalised communities. An Extending grant towards the costs associated with developing a strategic plan at this charity that works towards tackling food poverty, rural isolation and loneliness. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this small Gravesham based CIC that works to engage young people to develop their potential. A Delivering grant towards a programme of summer activities for vulnerable and socially excluded families. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this small charity providing help and advice to adults with autism and the families that support them. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs and rent at this centre providing services for socially excluded people and space for local charities. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this CIC that provides essential services, including support groups, for people suffering from acute mental ill health. A Stabilising grant towards core costs at this theatre group that works with marginalised groups including refugees. A Delivering grant towards a programme of free therapy sessions for children of disadvantaged families. An Extending grant to support the expansion of services to those suffering from mental ill health, improving organisational sustainability as a result. A Delivering grant to provide essential support to asylum seekers and refugees in Kent. A Stabilising grant towards core staff costs at this centre providing essential free advice services to the community. A Stabilising grant towards core staff costs at this charity providing respite and support for vulnerable and excluded families including disabled young people. A Delivering grant for project costs awarded to this small charity offering educational opportunities to socially excluded young people and engagement for elderly isolated. To help young people living in care to avoid the criminal justice system through outdoor fitness. Towards the Project Nova Kent programme which helps reduce the reoffending rates of veterans within in the criminal justice system. To provide free fast-track counselling/support for victims of domestic abuse and their families. To enhance support given to refugee families in Tunbridge Wells in the areas of education, finding employment and relieving financial hardship. To provide seven weeks of free holiday camps with 5,600 spaces for young people from the most deprived families in Folkestone and the surrounding area. To build and develop new mental health services to meet the increasing diverse needs of a deprived community that have been affected by the financial cost of living crisis.. A counselling service for people with a sight impairment in Kent to talk about their feelings and learn strategies with professionals who understand sight loss. To provide hygiene/cleaning packs to families in Medway who are experiencing hygiene poverty. To support pre-school children and their families living in a deprived area to have the best start in life. To run twice-weekly drop-in clinics for patients who are living at home with a terminal illness, and their families to access tailored, specialist, hospice support. Towards the charity’s strategic plan. To fund the development/delivery of a programme to support the wellbeing of parents/carers of children with cancer in Thanet and East Kent. To provide support for families facing isolation and challenges of new parenthood to ensure they maintain good wellbeing for all. To support and amplify youth work in the local community. Continuation funding towards a School-Home Support practitioner at Westcourt Primary in Gravesend - getting disadvantaged and vulnerable children in school, ready to learn. To fund dramatherapy for care leavers and young people preparing to leave care, supporting mental health and access to higher education and arts. To support young people to start/grow their own business, especially those who are marginalised, disadvantaged, with barriers to employment. Delivery and expansion of accredited education programmes for disadvantaged and disengaged young people needing learning opportunities outside of mainstream education provision. Mentoring service helping 48 young adult carers (16-25yrs) living in Medway improve their educational outcomes whilst balancing caring responsibilities. To enable Arts Education Exchange to double the number of young people it can to support and focus on building sustainability for the future. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this umbrella group supporting organisations working with young people. A Stabilising grant towards core costs at this charity that offers low cost counselling sessions. A Delivering grant towards project costs at this CIC that provides educational activities for socially excluded young people. A Delivering grant towards replacement equipment at this community cinema that supports elderly isolated. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this organisation that supports single mothers. An Extending grant towards salary costs at this organisation that tackles low attainment of women with educational disadvantage who wish to consider working in the construction industry manual trades. A Stabilising grant towards central costs at this charity providing emergency food, provisions and support to individuals and families across Tunbridge Wells and South Tonbridge. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this CIC that provides a check in and chat service, to support elderly and vulnerable people. A stabilising grant towards core costs at this charity that offers a range of weekly no-cost/low-cost classes, activities, workshops and information sessions to the local community. A Delivering grant towards workshops providing a creative outlet for vulnerable and socially excluded young people and families at this small theatre group. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this service that provides support to homeless people with complex needs A Stabilising grant towards salary costs at this organisation that supports vulnerable individuals into employment. A Delivering grant towards a horticultural project at this charity that supports individuals with profound and complex needs. A stabilising grant towards core costs at this charity that seeks to support migrants, particularly those from the Czech, Slovak and Roma communities. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this charity which aims to increase access and inclusion to social leisure activities for young people with hidden disabilities A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this CIC that provides services to people living at the edge of the care system who are socially isolated, lonely and vulnerable. A Stabilising grant towards core salaries at this CIC providing employment and mental wellbeing support to vulnerable people. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this registered charity providing safe spaces and person-centred mental health support in the community to help people improve their wellbeing. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity providing low cost/no cost counselling support to vulnerable people. A Stabilising grant towards core staffing costs at this charity supporting vulnerable young mothers. A Delivering grant towards care packages for recovering alcohol and drug users. A Stabilising grant towards volunteers costs at this charity providing support and facilities for young people in Maidstone. A Delivering grant towards project costs at this organisation that supports people with profound disabilities. A Stabilising grant towards website development at this CIC that seeks to inform and support those suffering with hearing impairment. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity that supports refugees. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this organisation that provides free one-to-one specialist trauma counselling for people affected by any crime across Kent & Medway. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity providing volunteer opportunities , job search skills and free clothing for vulnerable women. A Delivering grant towards project costs at this CIC providing forest school experiences to vulnerable people from the local community. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity supporting those seeking asylum who are accommodated at Napier Barracks in Folkestone. A Delivering grant towards the cost of life lesson classes at this charity that supports refugees. A Stabilising grant towards legal advice at this umbrella group that supports the rural community. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity that provides voluntary and community sector infrastructure support. A Delivering grant towards the production costs of a specialist book for disabled children and their families. A Delivering grant towards the project costs of mentored home cooking courses at this organisation that supports people in food poverty. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this organisation that supports vulnerable people suffering the effects of drugs, alcohol or homelessness on the streets of Ashford. A Stabilising grant towards storage costs at this organisation that supports people affected by domestic abuse. To provide an onsite rehabilitation programme for incarcerated ex-offending mental health patients to develop their self-awareness and help them find purpose through producing music. Funding for this small user-led charity that offers advice and support to foreign national prisoners in various prisons as well as to those who have been released. New women’s accommodation with support specifically for women leaving prison in the South East who may otherwise be homeless and need further resettlement provision. Funding to support CACT’s mentoring programme in Thanet, which promotes personal resilience and raises the aspirations of young people from areas of deprivation. Advocacy and mental health support for parents in Medway whose children are in or on the edge of care, improve lives and reducing the number of children entering care. To support SATEDA services for female survivors of domestic abuse across Swale, Medway and expanding into Maidstone To part-fund salaries of two project workers over three years to deliver mental health support. To support vulnerable and disadvantaged families with children under five in the districts of Tonbridge and Malling, Tunbridge Wells and Sevenoaks. To expand support groups for parents of children with additional needs, increase the number of subsidised counselling sessions, and cover rental costs. Engaging with African men in abusive relationships living in Medway to provide outreach events and inclusive services. To ensure children and families are kept safe around water and can physically and mentally thrive. Towards a food project that provides pre-prepared ingredients and recipes for families to learn to cook healthy food on a budget. Towards the salary of a full-time caseworker for three years to prevent homelessness and reduce poverty, disadvantage and social and financial exclusion. Parenting Services supports families disadvantaged by Deafness & communication barriers. The funding will train staff to become parenting facilitators for specialist support. To provide welcoming support at a Community Hub and outreach opportunities across the whole Thanet area in partnership with statutory and voluntary organisations. To provide a community hub resource to enable families supporting a child / young person with Down`s syndrome to access on a local level. To provide young people aged 16-24 years with work experience, mentorship and opportunity for creative expression as part of POW's International Women's Day Festival 2024. Reconnect with Employment – helping 16-25 year old NEETS into employment through confidence, resilience and skill building mentoring programmes. Towards improving the life and employability chances of vulnerable Sheppey (and wider Swale) young adults aged 14-25 through agricultural and retail work experience. An Extending Grant towards the costs of a new safety dingy which will improve efficiency, reduce costs and increase sustainability at this small charity providing water-based activities in a deprived part of the county. A Delivering Grant towards the cost of Touch to See Books, tactile books with immersive audio descriptions, helping to ensure blind and partially sighted people experience the books in the same way as their sighted peers A Stabilising Grant towards a range of core costs at this community based sensory garden. A Stabilising Grant towards the Coordinators Salary at this charity that works to protect vulnerable people on the streets of Dover. A Stabilising Grant towards core salaries at this charity that delivers anti-crime, anti-gang, anti-drugs, behaviour-challenging programmes. An Extending Grant towards developing an alternative income source at this charity that uses volunteers to provide a range of services to elderly, vulnerable and socially isolated people living on the Hoo Peninsula, a deprived rural area on the North Kent coast. A Stabilising Grant towards an Administrator's salary at this organisation that provides employment, education, training and volunteering support to the most vulnerable in the community. A Stabilising Grant towards core salary costs at this CIO that provides a range of projects including community outreach work and support to migrants and refugees. A Stabilising Grant towards core salaries at this organisation promoting mental health and well-being, especially among young people and families facing challenges, through therapeutic interactions with horses. A Stabilising Grant towards core staffing costs at this CIC that aims to fight loneliness, isolation and improve community cohesion. A Stabilising Grant towards rent and utilities at this charity that supports people who are homeless and socially excluded in Canterbury and East Kent. A Stabilising Grant towards rent and salary costs at this inclusive organisation delivering dance for people with and without learning disabilities in East Kent. An Extending Grant towards developing innovative additional income sources at this CIC providing support to those in food poverty. A Stabilising Grant towards salary costs at this charity that helps care for vulnerable, mentally ill and homeless people in Canterbury. A Stabilising Grant towards rent, utilities and insurance at this charity providing essential baby items to vulnerable parents. A Stabilising Grant toward core salaries and volunteer costs at this charity that supports socially isolated people living in Romney Marsh. An Extending Grant towards salary costs at this charity that supports capacity building in small organisations in Kent. A Stabilising Grant towards core staff costs at this charity based in Dartford and providing support to vulnerable families and individuals in need. An Extending Grant towards a new staff structure and training at this charity working on the Isle of Sheppey providing support and opportunities to several vulnerable groups including those with dementia. A Stabilising Grant towards core costs at this charity providing a range of services to vulnerable local people in a deprived area of the county. A Stabilising Grant towards administrative overheads at this small CIC that delivers facilitated, equine based experiences to vulnerable adults, including those with PTSD. A Stabilising Grant towards core salary costs at this charity set up by people with disabilities or long-term health conditions that runs activities and training and supports local residents to become less isolated and improve their physical health and well-being. Supporting young men struggling with domestic abuse trauma who are on the brink of the criminal justice system. Towards a music club to improve the mental wellbeing of young people in Cookham Wood Young Offenders’ Institution. Support, training and information to autistic individuals, their families and professionals. Towards 'Margate Family Project' supporting families in poverty by running empowering courses/programmes. To support families living with “child to parent” violence, eliminating isolation, shame and hopelessness. Supporting families with young children both emotionally and practically. To improve efficiency of family separation service supporting fathers post-separation, by recruiting a caseworker. Programme of well-being activities to support carers by giving them a break, helps them to make connections and reduces isolation.. Personal and career development support for BAME youths in Gravesham; to acquire key skills. Towards the costs of reinstating youth film/arts workshops. Financial literacy course for 16-18 year olds to equip them with essential real life skills Using in-house teams and specialist employer volunteering to provide support to vulnerable learners and those at risk of disengaging. Specialist rape and sexual abuse counselling for young people and a follow up support group. Bespoke, specialist support for Medway’s NEET creatives including 1:1 mentoring in partnership with Medway Youth Services. To expand Wellbeing/Mental Health courses into Secondary Schools in deprived areas of Tonbridge & Malling. Towards a holistic programme of support for NEET young people, offering academic tutoring, employability skills, volunteering and 1:1 coaching. Accredited English classes, digital/IT skills training and careers advice in Folkestone for young NEET newly-arrived Afghan and Ukrainian refugees. A Delivering grant towards project costs at this charity providing opportunities in the arts for priority communities such as older, younger and least engaged people. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this CIC that aims to provide a supportive environment, where individuals with disabilities can learn programming skills. A Stabilising grant towards the CEO salary costs at this charity that works with people at all stages of the dementia journey, often until the end of life A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity providing Kent children access to a bereavement service that responds to their needs following the death of a family member or friend. A Stabilising grant towards the set up costs at this newly formed CIC providing a training café alongside a programme of off-site work placements supporting young adults from disadvantaged backgrounds. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity supporting the homeless, those in addiction, socially isolated, disadvantaged and in crisis in Maidstone. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this accessible arts organisation that aims to bring together people of all abilities, catering for disadvantaged people and breaking down social barriers. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this small user-led charity providing support to children with additional needs and their families. An Extending grant towards essential IT infrastructure at this charity providing free, confidential and impartial advice to the public. A Stabilising grant towards core salaries at this organisation that operates a range of services including a volunteer matching service in the deprived coastal communities of Kent A Stabilising grant towards rent, utilities and core salaries at this CIC that trains people with disabilities and supports the local community through food. A Stabilising grant towards core salaries at this CIC that delivers programmes aimed at elderly people who are isolated and lonely. A Stabilising grant towards the costs associated with providing school uniforms for those in need. A Delivering grant towards the cost of running several programmes across Cliftonville's diverse community. A Stabilising grant towards core salaries at this charity that seeks to support individuals’ positive mental health, reduce loneliness, and improve knowledge and skills. A Stabilising grant towards staff costs at this charity that provides an annual summer programme providing support and services for children with a variety of severe and complex disabilities. A Stabilising grant towards salaries at this CIC that provides inclusive sports programmes for disabled people in Kent. A Stabilising grant towards an Administrator salary at this CIC that provides fishing programmes and support for those suffering from mental ill health. A stabilising grant towards core salaries and utilities at this community group that offers crisis support to the people of Chatham and Medway. A Delivering grant towards dance workshops at this organisation that works to improve equality and quality of life for older people and other marginalised communities. A Stabilising grant towards rent and office costs for this organisation supporting the welfare needs of Nigerians living in Kent and Medway. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs for this primarily volunteer led group that provides water-based activities for disabled and disadvantaged people. A Stabilising grant towards storage costs at this charity that distributes free hygiene projects to those in acute need. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this umbrella group that supports small, primarily BAME led groups to build capacity. A Delivering grant towards project equipment enabling this church to start up a non-profit shop that donates good quality clothing to women who may be refugees, in refuge or struggling with the current poverty crisis. To transform the relationships between residents and their families, working 1:1 pre and post release to improve rehabilitation, and strengthen family outcomes. Towards ‘ Turning Pages’ an evidence-based reading programme in Kent prisons which gives people in custody the opportunity to learn to read. Towards the Sycamore Tree restorative justice programme and Angel Tree family support programme in Kent prisons. Towards Side-by-Side, strategic research project that will put family at the heart of criminal justice in Kent. To provide pro bono family law advice and representation to mothers in prison to help re-establish and maintain contact with their children. Support for group singing programmes for those with personality disorders and/or addictions, some of the hardest to reach people in HMP Swaleside. To support a whole-family approach to mental health & wellbeing in Maidstone, Ashford and Swale. To part-fund the new Project Manager’s salary over 2 years. For two part time family support workers to provide practical and emotional support to struggling, vulnerable families with children under the age of 11. To support Hi Kent's Outreach Programme of free lipreading classes for people of all ages in Kent living with hearing loss. To expand services to meet the additional urgent need for support for disadvantaged families. To provide life-changing trauma-led recovery programmes for children and young people in West Kent experiencing domestic abuse. To provide sustained support and advice on money/debt, entitlements, housing and employment matters to clients with mental health issues, in partnership with Blackthorn Trust. Continuation funding for a School-Home Support Practitioner at St John’s Catholic Comprehensive School in Gravesham. To support vulnerable young people in Maidstone who are experiencing various forms of mental health difficulties. For a fully qualified, SE Kent, 'Wellbeing & Mentoring Executive' focused permanently around Dover, Folkestone and Hythe. To generate and support opportunities for young adults with learning difficulties and/or disabilities to positively contribute to society through meaningful employment. Towards the cost of the CEO, Finance Officer, Community and Corporate Fundraiser, Evidence and Impact Coordinator and new Senior Management Team. To improve the health and wellbeing of young people with mental health problems, by supporting them to overcome barriers to engagement & support. To support the prevention of alcohol exposed pregnancies and to improve the quality of life for those living with Foetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity providing arts opportunities and education to a deprived part of Kent. A Delivering grant towards the project costs of an arts programme at this CIC providing support for people with physical disability, sensory impairment and neuro-diverse conditions. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs including rent for this newly formed CIC that supports small businesses through trading opportunities, especially for those suffering financial hardship. A Delivering grant towards the project costs of a food growing programme aimed at food bank users at this CIC that provides work experience and skills training by carrying out community gardening and greening. A Stabilising grant towards central management costs at this charity that supports elderly people to stay in their homes. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this CIC providing support to those living with life-challenges including disability, dementia, Parkinson’s, loneliness and bereavement. A Stabilising grant towards the CEO's salary costs at this charity delivering a range of much needed and well used services aimed at elderly and vulnerable service users. A Delivering grant towards an art project in a socially deprived area of Dover. A Stabilising grant towards back-office costs at this charity that works to equip disabled people to be self-advocates, and lead a more independent life. A Stabilising grant towards core costs including salaries and running expenses at this organisation that provides training, skills development and volunteering opportunities to vulnerable groups. A Stabilising grant towards administration costs at this growing CIC providing a range of critical services including low cost/free counselling for socially excluded people experiencing mental ill health. A Stabilising grant towards core salaries at this small charity that addresses disadvantage within the Nepalese community by providing support and assistance, sharing information, acting as an advocate and promoting Nepalese history and culture A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this organisation that supports young mothers. A Stabilising grant supporting this charity that provides services to vulnerable and socially excluded families in one of the poorest parts of Kent. An Extending grant towards consultancy costs at this charity that supports rural communities and organisations in Kent. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this newly formed CIC which supports the local community around isolation, food poverty, money management, employment skills, health issues and digital skills A Stabilising grant towards core costs including salaries at this charity that provides low cost counselling for vulnerable people. A Stabilising grant towards core costs including rent, at this small CIC that provides a variety of free activities aimed at children, vulnerable families and individuals to help improve emotional wellbeing and confidence. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity providing affordable counselling services for those whose needs fall outside the scope of NHS mental health criteria, those who cannot afford private counselling, or others whose needs are more complex and may require longer term therapy. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity that aims to improve the health, wellbeing, educational attainment and life opportunities of children across Kent. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this charity that provides a local broadcasting service for hospitals, residential homes and similar institutions, and for patients receiving community care. An Extending grant towards upgrading the IT system at this charity that provides free, confidential and independent advice for the benefit of the community. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this organisation that supports families and individuals in severe poverty, providing advice, meeting space, emergency food and free furniture. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this non-profit that provides free, creative spaces for marginalised migrant women in deprived areas of Thanet to learn English, develop intercultural friendships and overcome the daily community integration challenges they face. A Delivering grant towards equipment costs at this small organisation working in a deprived area supporting young people to stay away from crime and anti-social behaviour. A Stabilising grant towards marketing costs at this newly formed organisation that works to improve mental health among children and young people. A Delivering grant towards project salary costs at this small charity that delivers age-appropriate, anti-crime, anti-gang, anti-drugs, behaviour-challenging workshops in schools. A Delivering grant funding an outreach project at this social enterprise which works to reduce isolation for those suffering or vulnerable to mental health concerns Funding to become the key referral route for young people to access Buddi Tags through its Metanoia Project. To facilitate positive resettlement, reduce reoffending and harness family relationships through sport. Supporting distance learning opportunities for prisoners in Kent To support young people caught in a cycle of reoffending or at risk of offending, to progress into employment/education/training. To expand the Food Aid services and stabilise tenancy support services. Providing low-cost/free childcare to vulnerable children from families struggling with domestic violence, illness, mental health issues and financial hardship. Bring an annual touring theatre production to Medway, working collaboratively with the Luton Arches community to facilitate participation by local people. To establish a service to support children and families impacted by trauma and abuse in North Kent and Medway. To enable technical and quality support to the team working across several advice channels so they can provide the best service to clients. To provide an enhanced & expanded programme of community-based creative activities that boosts the wellbeing of people living with/affected by dementia. Towards an Information & Advice Service which supports older people to deal with issues that could lead to poverty and exclusion To increase youth work provision in the local community. To sustain the provision of youth hub services for two more years, providing innovative support to disadvantaged young people in Gravesham. To deliver and further develop the FutureMe programme in Kent, empowering 350 young people to transition from school to work. To help young people with social, emotional, mental health challenges resulting from complex trauma. Expand work with 11–16-year-old female survivors of domestic abuse to new areas and offer more 1:1 support to promote recovery from trauma. Support to deliver the Make Waves creative careers programme for a further two years. Supporting disadvantaged young people in Sheerness to enter education, employment or training by building confidence and communication skills through a youth theatre club. Levelling the Playing Field, a programme supporting disadvantaged young people to take the lead in creating events and initiatives. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity that seeks to engage people who would not otherwise have access to high quality arts provision. An Extending grant towards exploring new partnerships at this charity which runs programmes to support vulnerable communities to live happier, healthier, fulfilled lives. A Stabilising grant towards volunteer and office costs awarded to this small charity set up to support people seeking asylum who are accommodated at Napier Barracks in Folkestone. A Delivering grant awarded to this organisation that supports people in food poverty. The funding will provide mentored home cooking courses for 60 socially excluded people in Thanet. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs for this charity that supports the families of seriously ill and disabled children who need specialist medical treatment. An Extending grant towards IT equipment enabling video link advice giving at this charity proving vital support to people living in a deprived part of the county. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity providing advice, support and accommodation to street homeless people. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity that provides support to people who have suffered a bereavement. A Delivering grant to enable this small theatre group to provide an 11-week community engagement programme aimed at first generation migrants, refugees and asylum seekers with little or no previous experience of theatre. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity that provides support to people who have suffered a bereavement. A Stabilising grant towards building and insurance costs at this community organisation that provides space for local charities and activities for socially excluded groups in a deprived part of the county. An Extending grant towards digital infrastructure improvements at this community organisation that offers cultural opportunities to under-represented groups. A Stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this organisation that uses the power of creativity to help people with dementia to live and thrive. A Stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this organisation that offers low cost and free driving lessons and employment support to vulnerable and socially excluded young people. Towards provision of a new, safe resettlement home for homeless people at risk of offending or released from custody. Mentoring service to reduce young people’s offending and re-offending, and (in years 2 & 3) employ 2 young people as peer mentors. To support young wheelchair users and their families in Kent. To finance the launch of a new Support Brokerage Service for disabled young people aged 18-25 years which will give them control over their own lives. To set up a Whitstable family hub providing whole family support: counselling for vulnerable children and young people and parenting support for struggling/hard to reach parents & families. To provide assessment, individual and group support to children, young people and their families following the death of a relative or friend. To improve accessibility for all members of the local community. To match fund the post of a Financial Capability Officer. Develop EET opportunities for NEET young people by developing an employment and training generating “Farm to Fork” provision at Woodpecker Court, including a community café. For training, uniforms, and tools for young, disadvantaged people to participate on an 8-week paid training and work placement programme. To provide more structured support to young people and their families in a safe, secure, and fun environment promoting sport and all its benefits. To provide the young people of Medway leaving structured treatment (for drug and alcohol addiction) with a mentor. To improve outcomes for young people in Kent by equipping them with essential communication skills needed for work. To provide Medway-based vulnerable and marginalised young people aged 14 to 25 the opportunity to increase life chances through creativity. Filmmaking project offering technical and transferable skills to over 180 Northfleet and Gravesend-based disadvantaged young people To teach new skills, knowledge and confidence to disadvantaged under 25s who may pursue volunteering, apprenticeships or employment. A stabilising grant towards core salary costs for this CIC that uses the arts to improve the health, training and employment opportunities of vulnerable people living in Ramsgate. A stabilising grant towards a range of core costs at this organisation that promotes regeneration in areas of social and economic deprivation. A delivering grant towards the costs of providing play activities at this school for children with educational, social and behavioural needs A stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity providing mediation services to those experiencing conflict with others. A delivering grant towards the cost of the organisation's 'Get Growing' project tackling food poverty. A stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this resource centre providing support for those with complex, enduring mental health conditions. A delivering grant to provide children in poverty with activities and child-care during the school holidays. A delivering grant towards the costs associated with running a community cinema, reducing isolation in a deprived rural area. A delivering grant towards the cost of a Jubilee party. A delivering grant towards the cost of free places for vulnerable young people at this CIC that provides equine assisted learning and horsemanship skills. A stabilising grant covering core salary costs at this Gravesham based foodbank operated by a group of local churches. A stabilising grant supporting accessibility and inclusion at this arts group delivering services to those with profound disabilities. An extending grant towards core salary costs supporting the growth of this CIC providing employment and training opportunities for ex-offenders and vulnerable young people. A stabilising grant towards core salary costs at this charity delivering a range of activities aimed at adults with learning disabilities, people suffering with long-term health conditions and the isolated. A delivering grant to fund beginner IT classes for older and isolated individuals. A stabilising grant towards core salary and rent costs at this charity that refurbishes donated IT and distributes it to those in need. A delivering grant towards the production and distribution of Touch to See books for blind children living in Kent. A stabilising grant towards rent at this charity offering accredited counselling to people in the local community who could not otherwise afford it. A stabilising grant towards rent and volunteer costs at this volunteer run organisation providing help and support to people in the Deal and Dover District who are experiencing mental health problems. A stabilising grant towards core salaries at this organisation that supports those in crisis in Maidstone. An extending grant to fund the employment of a Business Development Manager at this CIC specialising in matching volunteers with isolated elderly people. A stabilising grant towards core costs at this charity that supports people into work. Contact us Privacy Statement Press © 2018 Colyer-Fergusson Charitable Trust | all rights reserved | Registered Charity 258958