About Us The Dulverton Trust was founded in 1949 by Sir Gilbert Alan Hamilton Wills, the 1st Lord Dulverton. The objects of the Trust are broad and the emphasis has evolved over the years. See further details of what we fund here . Since its foundation, the Dulverton Trust has made grants totalling over £120 million, which have provided much-needed support to thousands of charities. For more information about our funding and how we make decisions, please see our Annual Report and Accounts and FAQs . Trustees As a family foundation, the Trustees include members of the Founder’s family as well as a number of other individuals with wide experience of the areas and activities supported by the Trust. Christopher Wills* – Chairman Dame Mary Richardson Richard Fitzalan Howard* – Vice Chairman Sir Malcolm Rifkind Tara Douglas-Home Laura Wills The Lord Dulverton The Hon. Robert Wills* The Lord Hemphill* *Members of the Trust Finance Committee Meet Our Team Director Binda joined the Dulverton Trust as Director in 2024. She is responsible for the overall operation of the Trust. Binda has previously worked at the Sutton Trust, a charity championing social mobility in the UK. She has dedicated over 15 years of her career to working with charities and held several trustee positions, including the Diana Award and Arts Emergency. Head of Grants Ella joined the Trust in 2018, originally as Grants Officer. In her current role as Head of Grants, she manages the Trust’s day-to-day grant making and grant management, as well as the Community Foundation partnerships. Since 2021, she has also led on the Trust’s partnership with the #iwill Fund. Before joining the Trust, Ella worked at BBC Children in Need in roles in the Finance, Operations and grant making teams, and as a fundraiser at the charity I Can. Ella completed a Masters degree in Sociology of Childhood and Children’s Rights in 2017, which informs her work at the Trust. Finance Director Emma recently joined the Dulverton Trust as its Finance Director. She is responsible for the finance and investment-related operations. Emma is a chartered accountant with over 30 years of experience in audit, investment banking, and, for the last 13 years, in the education and charity sectors, where she has consistently delivered transparency and accountability in financial practices. Beyond the world of finance, you’ll likely find her on a golf course, enjoying the challenge and fellowship that the sport brings. Grants Officer and Administrator Lexi joined the Trust in 2024 as Grants Officer and Administrator. Her day-to-day role includes supporting the grants assessment process alongside office management and administrative support. Before joining the trust Lexi worked at Hospice UK as a trust fundraiser. She also completed the Charityworks graduate scheme which included writing a research project on grant making in the UK. Annual Reports and Accounts 2024/25 Annual Report and Accounts 2023/24 Annual Report and Accounts 2022/23 Annual Report and Accounts 2021/22 Annual Report and Accounts 2020/21 Annual Report and Accounts 2019/20 Annual Report and Accounts 2018/19 Annual Report and Accounts