Privacy Policy This privacy policy template is based on a free document supplied by The Legal Stop Limited through its website www.thelegalstop.co.uk Your privacy is important to the Dulverton Trust. We are committed to safeguarding the privacy of our website visitors; this privacy statement sets out how we will treat your personal information. The Dulverton Trust may collect, store and use the following kinds of personal information: information that you provide to us for the purpose of enquiring about or applying for a grant; information that you provide to us for the purpose of reporting on grants or providing case studies; information that you provide for the purpose of applying for an employment role; any other information that you choose to send to us; information about your computer and about your visits to and use of this website (which may include your IP address, geographical location, browser type and version, referral source, entry page, exit page, length of visit, number of page views, route taken through this website, and similar information). This information is collected for the purpose of improving our website and communications. Personal information submitted to us via our website, directly via email or post, over the telephone, in person or by any other means will be used for the purposes specified in this privacy statement or in relevant parts of the website. We may process your personal data for the reasons detailed below: Grant applicants: Personal information provided to us via our website or directly via email or post for the purpose of submitting a grant application will be used as appropriate to complete a thorough assessment of your proposal. By providing us with your information, including personal data, signifying consent on the online application form you will be providing your explicit consent to the collection and retention of any information you provide on our database. We may approach other funders who have supported you previously and share information with them. We may use your data to send you email notifications related to a grant application and send you general non-marketing communications. Information provided by grantees for the purpose of reporting or case studies, will not be shared outside our organisation without your explicit and informed consent. Grant enquiries: If you have not applied to us before and you contact us via our website, telephone, email or post to make an enquiry, the information that you provide will be held as necessary for our legitimate interests in dealing with your enquiry and analysis of enquiries received. Job applicants: Personal data submitted for the purpose of applying for an employment role at the Dulverton Trust will be retained for as long as we need to use it for the purpose of considering you for a vacancy. If we determine that we cannot offer you the role, we will retain your details on file for up to 6 months before securely destroying the data. Website users: Our Website uses cookies – please see our Cookies policy ( a copy of which can be accessed here ) for further details. This data will be used to enable your use of the services available on the website and improve your browsing experience. Other: Any other personal information knowingly provided to us, including but not limited to the purpose of contracting with us, will only be used for the purpose for which it was given. The data will not be kept for longer than necessary and will be destroyed securely. Your personal information will not be shared with third parties unless it is required by law, for example, for the detection or prevention of crime. This information is processed according to Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation for the following reasons: as necessary for the performance of tasks carried out in the public interest, in this case the disbursement of funds to a variety of charitable organisations who meet the Dulverton Trust’s charitable objects; as necessary in the pursuit of the legitimate interests of the charity, in this case, to acquire the information necessary to process grant applications for compliance with legal obligations, in this case to provide full and accurate information to the Charity Commission and Companies House concerning the Directors of the Trust. The Dulverton Trust reserves the right to hold data related to grant applications for archive purposes, to help inform future grant making policy/processes, and in order to facilitate a high standard of due diligence which will enable the charity to continue to fulfil its charitable objects. The Dulverton Trust reserves the right to hold data related to unsuccessful job applications for no longer that 6 months, before all data is securely destroyed. We will take reasonable technical and organisational precautions to prevent the loss, misuse or alteration of your personal information. The Dulverton Trust will store all the personal data you provide on its secure cloud based services including Salesforce, Box and Office 365 and an additional encrypted back up on a hard drive. This information is protected using both password management tools, data encryption and two-factor authentication where possible. We may disclose information about you to any of our employees, Trustees, officers, agents, suppliers or subcontractors insofar as reasonably necessary for the purposes as set out in this privacy statement. We currently reserve the right to pass information provided to us by applicants to other Trusts and Foundations. In addition, we may disclose your personal information: to the extent that we are required to do so by law; in connection with any legal proceedings or prospective legal proceedings; in order to establish, exercise or defend our legal rights (including providing information to others for the purposes of fraud prevention and reducing credit risk); and to any person who we reasonably believe may apply to a court or other competent authority for disclosure of that personal information where, in our reasonable opinion, such court or authority would be reasonably likely to order disclosure of that personal information. Except as provided in this privacy statement, we will not provide your information to third parties. Information that the Dulverton Trust collects may be stored and processed in and transferred between any of the countries in the EU in accordance with this privacy statement. In addition, personal information that you submit for publication on the website will be published on the internet and may be available around the world. You may instruct us to provide you with any personal information we hold about you. Provision of such information will be subject to the supply of appropriate evidence of your identity. In some circumstances you may also have the right to: Request that we erase any personal data held about you; Restrict our processing of your personal data (for example to ask to suspend the processing of personal information to establish its accuracy or the reasons for processing it); Data portability (i.e. to request the transfer of personal data to a third party); and Object to our processing of your personal data. Requests in respect of the above should be made in writing to the Dulverton Trust at 5 St James’s Place, London, SW1A 1NP. Please contact us at the same address if you have any reason to believe that information we hold about you is inaccurate. We will aim to respond to your request within one month from the date of receiving the request. Please note that we may, where legally permitted, reject any such request or limit the scope of our response (for example if, in the circumstances, the right does not apply to you). You will not generally have to pay a fee to exercise any of your rights described above. However, we may charge a reasonable fee if you make a request to see a copy of your personal information which is clearly unfounded or excessive. Alternatively, we may refuse to comply with your request in such circumstances. We may also charge a reasonable fee if you request further copies of the data following a request. The fee will be based on the administrative costs of providing further copies. If you have concerns about how we use your data, you have the right to complain to the Information Commissioner’s Office. We may update this privacy statement from time-to-time by posting a new version on our website. You should check this page occasionally to ensure you are happy with any changes. We may also notify you of changes to our privacy statement by email. The website contains links to other websites that are not under the control of and are not maintained by the Dulverton Trust. We are not responsible for the content or reliability of the linked websites. The Dulverton Trust provides these links for your convenience only but does not endorse the material on these sites. If you have any questions about this privacy statement or our treatment of your personal information, please write to us by email to grants@dulverton.org or by post to 5 St James’s Place, London, SW1A 1NP.