Cookies Policy This website’s cookies policy template is based on a free document supplied by The Legal Stop Limited through its website www.thelegalstop.co.uk We may use cookies on our website. By using our website you agree to this Policy and you consent to our use of cookies in accordance with the terms of this Policy. A cookie is a small file which asks permission to be placed on your computer’s hard drive. Once you agree, the file is added and the cookie helps analyse web traffic or lets you know when you visit a particular site. Cookies allow web applications to respond to you as an individual. The web application can tailor its operations to your needs, likes and dislikes by gathering and remembering information about your preferences. There are two main kinds of cookies: “session” cookies and “persistent” cookies. Session cookies only last for the duration of users using the website and are deleted from your computer when you close your browser, whereas persistent cookies outlast user sessions and remain stored on your computer until deleted, or until they reach their expiry date. We use Persistent Cookies on this website. We use cookies for the following purposes: to improve the website’s usability to administer the website Generally, we use cookies to help us administer this website and to improve the website’s usability. We may also use cookies to identify which pages are being used. This helps us analyse data about webpage traffic and improve our website in order to tailor it to user needs. We only use this information for statistical analysis purposes and then the data is removed from the system. Overall, cookies help us provide you with a better website, by enabling us to monitor which pages you find useful and which you do not. Cookies do not contain any information that personally identifies you: a cookie in no way gives us access to your computer or any information about you. We are committed to ensuring that your information is secure. In order to prevent unauthorised access or disclosure we have put in place suitable physical, electronic and managerial procedures to safeguard and secure the information we collect online. You can choose to accept or decline cookies. Most web browsers automatically accept cookies, but you can usually modify your browser setting to decline cookies if you prefer. This may prevent you from taking full advantage of the website. We also use third party cookies. Third party cookies may be used for the following purposes: to track your browser across multiple websites to build a profile of your web surfing In addition, we use Google Analytics to analyse the use of this website. Google Analytics generates statistical and other information about website use by means of cookies, which are stored on users’ computers. The information generated relating to our website is used to create reports about the use of the website. Google will store and use this information. Google’s privacy policy is available at www.google.com/privacypolicy.html Most browsers allow you to reject all cookies, whilst some browsers allow you to reject just third party cookies.