Cookie policy This Cookie Policy explains what cookies are and how we use them. You should read this policy to understand what cookies are, how we use them, the types of cookies we use i.e, the information we collect using cookies and how that information is used and how to control the cookie preferences. For further information on how we use, store and keep your personal data secure, see our Privacy Policy. You can at any time change or withdraw your consent from the Cookie Declaration on our website. Learn more about who we are, how you can contact us and how we process personal data in our Privacy Policy. Your consent applies to the following domains: bagrifoundation.org Cookies are small text files that are used to store small pieces of information. The cookies are stored on your device when the website is loaded on your browser. These cookies help us make the website function properly, make the website more secure, provide better user experience, and understand how the website performs and to analyze what works and where it needs improvement. As most of the online services, our website uses cookies first-party and third-party cookies for a number of purposes. The first-party cookies are mostly necessary for the website to function the right way, and they do not collect any of your personally identifiable data. The third-party cookies used on our websites are used mainly for understanding how the website performs, how you interact with our website, keeping our services secure, providing advertisements that are relevant to you, and all in all providing you with a better and improved user experience and help speed up your future interactions with our website. Essential : These cookies are essential for the website's efficient and secure operation. They ensure web pages display correctly and support core site functionalities. Your privacy preferences, including cookie consent, are stored in this category. While you can disable them in your browser settings, doing so may cause the website to malfunction. These cookies do not collect any personally identifiable information. Performance : These cookies enable us to measure and analyze our website's performance by monitoring visitor usage patterns, such as the frequency of page visits, sources of traffic, encountered errors, and the devices and browsers used to access our site. This analytics data helps us maintain and enhance the website's performance. Marketing : Our website might display advertisements. These cookies are used to personalize the advertisements that we show to you so that they are meaningful to you. These cookies also help us keep track of the efficiency of these ad campaigns. The information stored in these cookies may also be used by the third-party ad providers to show you ads on other websites on the browser as well. Functional : These are the cookies that help certain non-essential functionalities on our website. These functionalities include embedding content like videos or sharing contents on the website on social media platforms. Social Media Cookies : These cookies are set by a range of social media services that have been linked to our website to let you easily share our content with your friends on social networks. They are able to monitor your browsing activities across other sites and build a profile of your interests. This may have an influence on the content and messages you see on other websites you visit. Preferences : These cookies help us store your settings and browsing preferences like language preferences so that you have a better and more efficient experience on future visits to the website. Should you decide to change your preferences later through your browsing session, you can click here . This will display the consent notice again enabling you to change your preferences or withdraw your consent entirely. In addition to this, different browsers provide different methods to block and delete cookies used by websites. You can change the settings of your browser to block/delete the cookies. To find out more out more on how to manage and delete cookies, visit wikipedia.org , www.allaboutcookies.org . Copyright © 2025 Bagri Foundation. UK Reg Charity No: 1000219 Company Registered in England and Wales: No. 2530127 This website uses cookies to improve your experience. Please select one of the following buttons to indicate your cookie preference or find out more.