Home Programmes Medical Research The Sir Jules Thorn Award for Biomedical Research The Research Infrastructure Fund Innovation and Improvement in Health and Care Funding for Hospices Ann Rylands Small Donations Previous Awards The Sir Jules Thorn Award Capital Funding for Research Funding for Health and Care Projects Ann Rylands Small Donations 50th Anniversary Award About History Our team Medical Advisory Committee Annual Reports Board of Trustees Resources Contact Making a difference through effective grant making Making a difference through effective grant making Making a difference through effective grant making Our vision is to improve health and care for people living with serious long-term or life-limiting conditions. We do this by supporting world-leading translational research and investment in research equipment and facilities. We also support projects to integrate and improve care for people living with physical or mental ill health and help smaller charities providing practical and emotional support to people living with ill health or disability, and to their families and carers. GRANT PROGRAMMES The Trustees aim to fulfil Sir Jules Thorn’s vision through a range of grant programmes designed to help UK-registered charities achieve objectives consistent with the Trust’s priorities. Medical Research The Research Infrastructure Fund Innovation and Improvement in Health and Care Ann Rylands Small Donations “Your donation for a new scanner has had a hugely positive impact on our work. It will allow us to continue providing essential and timely care for many people within our community during their last days of life”. - Emily Paton, St Luke’s Hospice Plymouth “Your donation allowed us to establish a laboratory for prototyping advanced neuroprosthetic devices. It catalysed the development of a minimally-invasive spinal cord implant for treating chronic pain, which is advancing towards first-in-human trials.” . - George Malliaras, Prince Philip Professor of Technology, University of Cambridge “A huge thank you to the Sir Jules Thorn Charitable Trust. This funding is a huge boost to the WellChild Better at Home training programme. Caring for a child with serious and complex medical needs requires specialist knowledge and skills that are difficult to train at the bedside. Parent training is therefore one of the biggest barriers to getting a child out of hospital. By ex-panding this vital programme to new parts of the UK, we can give more parents and carers the skills and confidence to care for their children safely at home, where they will have the very best chance to thrive.”. - Colin Dyer, CEO, WellChild “Our vision is to save lives and improve quality of life by significantly reducing the recurrence of cancer after initial treatment and by treating cancer more effectively if the disease does return.”. - Dr Anthony Kong, Consultant Clinical Oncologist, Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust “The support from the Trust enables Jessie May nurses to provide vital respite care at home to families caring for a terminally ill child affording parents the opportunity to take a much-needed break secure in the knowledge that their child is safe.” - Sarah Chapman, The Jessie May Trust