Home Programmes Medical Research The Sir Jules Thorn Award for Biomedical Research The Research Infrastructure Fund Innovation and Improvement in Health and Care Funding for Hospices Ann Rylands Small Donations Previous Awards The Sir Jules Thorn Award Capital Funding for Research Funding for Health and Care Projects Ann Rylands Small Donations 50th Anniversary Award About History Our team Medical Advisory Committee Annual Reports Board of Trustees Resources Contact Programmes: The Sir Jules Thorn Award for Biomedical Research Preliminary applications for the 2026 Sir Jules Thorn Award are open For over 20 years, the Trust has supported world-leading translational research projects through the Sir Jules Thorn Award. The Award provides a grant of up to £1.7 million to support a five-year programme of translational biomedical research selected following a competition among applicants sponsored by the UK’s leading medical schools and NHS organisations. UK medical schools and NHS organisations are normally able to submit one application annually, selected following an internal competition. Full details of the programme are given in the guidance notes. ELIGIBILITY Applications for the Sir Jules Thorn Award are welcome from UK medical schools and NHS Organisations with only one application allowed per eligible institution/organisation. The research must have a justifiable claim to be at the leading edge of international science and must be led by a clearly identified Principal Applicant of outstanding quality in the early years of an established research and academic career. HOW TO APPLY Preliminary applications for 2026 are open and can be submitted here . The preliminary application will be available until Monday, 15 December 2025, at noon UTC. Please note that no late submissions will be accepted. TIMINGS Applications for the 2026 Sir Jules Thorn Award will reopen in September. Preliminary applications will be due on Monday, 15 December 2025, at noon UTC. Information about the selection process for the Award is set out in the Guidance Notes for the competition. The Trust’s peer review process is accredited by the AMRC. Information about previous winners of the Sir Jules Thorn Award can be found in the Previous Awards section of our website. Applicants should contact the Trust if they have any further questions regarding donations at [email protected] . Useful Links