Home Programmes Medical Research The Sir Jules Thorn Award for Biomedical Research The Research Infrastructure Fund Innovation and Improvement in Health and Care Funding for Hospices Ann Rylands Small Donations Previous Awards The Sir Jules Thorn Award Capital Funding for Research Funding for Health and Care Projects Ann Rylands Small Donations 50th Anniversary Award About History Our team Medical Advisory Committee Annual Reports Board of Trustees Resources Contact Previous Awards: Ann Rylands Small Donations ANN RYLANDS SMALL DONATIONS For many years the Trust has sought to encourage the endeavours of smaller charities providing practical and emotional support to people with – or at high risk of – physical or mental ill health, people living with a disability, and their families and carers. The programme was relaunched in January 2022 to enable the Trust to increase support for smaller charities whose work aligns with our mission to improve provision in health and care. In a typical year the Trust will provide donations to more than 300 charities and while the amounts are relatively modest many charities have received regular donations. In 2021 the Trust awarded a total of £418,200 across 336 organisations. The following provide an illustration of the charities which have benefited from the Trust’s support. ANN RYLANDS SMALL DONATIONS Phab Phab inspires and supports children, young people and adults with and without disabilities to make more of life together – breaking down community barriers, reducing social isolation and creating opportunities for disabled people to enjoy the same activities and challenges as, and alongside, those without a disability. Scotts Project Trust This charity supports adults with learning disabilities to strive to reach their aspirations and make choices about how they want to live their lives through three interlinked services, based near Tonbridge in Kent. Cheshire Autism Practical Support Ltd (ChAPS) ChAPS is a user-led charity, based in Runcorn. It was founded in April 2010 by a group of parents of children with Autism Spectrum Condition. They all knew from personal experience that there was an acute lack of services available to support the children and their wider families and they had a desire to improve the situation for themselves and for others. They provide a wide range of support and activities for some 450-member families (around 2,000 individuals), throughout Cheshire and Halton. SERVE This charity supports independent living in East Northamptonshire, through its mission to ensure that everyone who wishes to remain in their own home, irrespective of their age or disability, is enabled to do so. They provide a range of services to help people stay fit and health and enjoy the independence that living in their own home provides. These services include help with personal and domestic care, community transport, day trips and a therapy centre. Martha Trust Caring for people with profound physical and multiple learning disabilities and offering support to their families. Martha Trust offers life-time residential care, respite care, and day care for people with profound and multiple learning disabilities at three residential homes in Kent and East Sussex. DEMAND (Design and Manufacture for Disability) DEMAND designs and manufactures bespoke items of equipment, unobtainable elsewhere. For multiply disabled people, enabling them to gain greater access to opportunities in many fields, including art, education, employment, music and sport, etc. Alive Activities Working in over 330 care settings across the South and South West of England Alive enriches the lives of older people in care and trains their carers. They do this by running meaningful activity sessions which strengthen older people’s personal identities by connecting with their individual life stories, passions and interest. Over The Wall This Children’s charity provides unique therapeutic recreation camps. These camps are designed and proven to complement the ongoing treatment cycle of children with serious illnesses, to increase their confidence and self-esteem, to enhance their ability to copy and to enable to achieve their true potential. Wintercomfort for the Homeless Based in Cambridge this charity is a support hub for rough sleepers, the homeless and those at risk of losing their homes. Their day centre offers essential welfare and learning and development opportunities. Disability Challengers Challengers provides inclusive play and leisure opportunities across their schemes in the South East of England. They are places where disabled children and young people, aged 2 to 18, can enjoy new activities and make friends. Together Dementia Support This charity based in the North West supports people to live actively, socially and positively, with support for both people living with Dementia and their loved ones. They provide weekly support and activity groups for people alongside peer support groups for their carers. Kangaroos Mid Sussex This charity provides a range of fun, inclusive social and leisure activities for children and young adults who have learning disabilities and additional needs. Kangaroos provides weekend and holiday age-related clubs where young people can progress with their peers and be supported by the staff team. Norfolk Family Carers Supporting unpaid carers from the age of five, Norfolk Family Carers aims to ensure that their future is not adversely affected by their caring responsibilities; supporting their physical and emotional wellbeing and providing practical support. We Are Beams Based in Kent, We Are Beams helps disabled children and their families by delivering key services such as family advice and short breaks. They focus on three key areas: personal care, communication and life skills. They aim to extend opportunities for young people with disabilities, and enable them to make friends, have fun and improve their health and wellbeing.