About us Mission and Vision History About Alex Ferry About the Alex Ferry Foundation Meet the team The board Our Staff Our Partners Strategic Plan Annual reports & accounts Mission and Vision History About Alex Ferry About the Alex Ferry Foundation About Alex Ferry About the Alex Ferry Foundation Meet the team The board Our Staff The board Our Staff Our Partners Strategic Plan Annual reports & accounts Grant information Research Grants Community Grants Community Grants FAQs 360 Giving Research Grants Community Grants Community Grants FAQs Community Grants FAQs 360 Giving Work we support Research Community Research Community News & blogs Blogs News Blogs News Our Staff Keiran Goddard Keiran Goddard is the Executive Director and an experienced leader within the policy, research and foundation space. He was formerly Director of Reboot the Future Foundation and was the Director of External Affairs at the Association of Charitable Foundations (ACF), overseeing its policy and influencing functions, as well as playing a lead role in strategic development and partnerships. Educated at the University of Oxford, Keiran has written two books, spoken internationally about sector issues, sat on the DAFNE Legal Affairs Committee, authored a number of academic articles, is a co-author of the Foundation Giving Trends series and is a Policy Fellow at the University of Cambridge. He has a longstanding interest in labour rights, organising, and the future of work. Ian Waddell Ian Waddell is the External Relations Director and helped establish us as a unique charity which aims to improve the lives of people who work or have worked in the UK shipbuilding, engineering and related manufacturing industries, as well as their families and dependants. He was present at the High Court hearing in 2018 that led to the gift of millions of pounds from the CSEU 35 Hour Week Campaign to the Alex Ferry Foundation and oversaw the elections to create the Board of the new charity. Ian was elected as General Secretary of the Confederation of Shipbuilding & Engineering Unions (CSEU) in October 2017 after a 20-year career as a full-time officer with Unite and its predecessor unions. The CSEU represents union members working in aerospace, defence, engineering, rail, steel-making, shipbuilding and ship repair and has four major affiliates – Unite , GMB , Community and Prospect . He also sits on the Aerospace Growth Partnership (AGP) Board. Felicity Shemoon Fliss is a communications specialist with a longheld dedication to community and voluntary work. She has devised strategy, written copy and created content for many and varied organisations and has been involved with approaches to social change from grassroots community action through social enterprise and purpose-driven business operations. Ngozi Ojike Ngozi is an experienced administrator, executive assistant, and operations professional, who focuses on ensuring the foundation has robust operational, financial and organisational processes. She has worked with the CSEU for over a decade and has previous experience in public sector bodies and professional institutes. About the Alex Ferry Foundation Our Partners About Alex Ferry Community Grants Alex Ferry Foundation 10 Salamanca Place Vauxhall London SE1 7HB Latest tweets "Special Economic Zones can be shaped to serve communities – not just corporations". Another interesting piece from @CLESthinkdo to follow their Guide to Special Economic Zones, produced with our support earlier this year. Read the full article: https://cles.org.uk/blog/shaping-special-economic-zones-to-work-for-communities/ Sign up for our newsletter