About us Mission and Vision History About Alex Ferry About the Alex Ferry Foundation Meet the team The board Our Staff Our Partners Strategic Plan Annual reports & accounts Mission and Vision History About Alex Ferry About the Alex Ferry Foundation About Alex Ferry About the Alex Ferry Foundation Meet the team The board Our Staff The board Our Staff Our Partners Strategic Plan Annual reports & accounts Grant information Research Grants Community Grants Community Grants FAQs 360 Giving Research Grants Community Grants Community Grants FAQs Community Grants FAQs 360 Giving Work we support Research Community Research Community News & blogs Blogs News Blogs News Our Partners We believe that everyone should be a member of a trade union. Trade unionism is in our Foundation’s DNA – our Trustees are drawn from the trade unions and our endowment came from money donated by trade unionists in the Drive For 35 Campaign for shorter working time. Trade unions play a valuable role in our society, not just in representing people at work. Over the years, unions have won many advances that have benefited all of us including paid holidays, occupational pensions, sick pay, health and safety protection, paid maternity and paternity leave to name just a few. Trade unions lobby government and ensure that legislation reflects the needs of working people and their communities; they build networks at local, national, European and global level that help counter the effects of globalisation and the offshoring of work; they ensure that workers are consulted in the event of redundancies or transfers of ownership; unions sit on boards, works councils and information and consultation bodies, ensuring that a long term approach is taken to protect employment. In short, pretty much all of the positive provisions in workplace contracts and the floor of rights we enjoy in the UK were won by the action of trade unions. For all those reasons, we believe you should be part of our movement and should join a union. If there is a recognised trade union in your workplace, we recommend that you join that union. If not, we recommend that you join one of the CSEU’s partner unions – Unite, GMB, Community or Prospect. About the Alex Ferry Foundation Our Partners About Alex Ferry Community Grants Alex Ferry Foundation 10 Salamanca Place Vauxhall London SE1 7HB Latest tweets "Special Economic Zones can be shaped to serve communities – not just corporations". Another interesting piece from @CLESthinkdo to follow their Guide to Special Economic Zones, produced with our support earlier this year. Read the full article: https://cles.org.uk/blog/shaping-special-economic-zones-to-work-for-communities/ Sign up for our newsletter