About us Mission and Vision History About Alex Ferry About the Alex Ferry Foundation Meet the team The board Our Staff Our Partners Strategic Plan Annual reports & accounts Mission and Vision History About Alex Ferry About the Alex Ferry Foundation About Alex Ferry About the Alex Ferry Foundation Meet the team The board Our Staff The board Our Staff Our Partners Strategic Plan Annual reports & accounts Grant information Research Grants Community Grants Community Grants FAQs 360 Giving Research Grants Community Grants Community Grants FAQs Community Grants FAQs 360 Giving Work we support Research Community Research Community News & blogs Blogs News Blogs News Community Grants The Foundation has chosen to work closely with the CSEU regions in the allocation of its community grant fund. Please note that we only accept applications for community grants which have been submitted through the CSEU regions and all applications must have a supporting document from the relevant region. The regions are the local focus for the Confederation of Shipbuilding and Engineering Unions in the relevant industries. There are ten CSEU regions where we operate our community grants. East Midlands Eastern North West Northern Ireland Scotland Southern South West Wales West Midlands Yorkshire, Humberside and North East The CSEU regions will identify and give support to charitable projects which reflect both their local priorities and also our strategic plan and objectives. Community grants the regions will support are aimed at bringing people together and building strong relationships across their communities. Activities funded will have a focus on: improving the places and spaces that matter to communities. enabling more people to fulfil their potential by working to address issues at the earliest possible stage. involving the local community in the design, development and delivery of the grant receiving planning. Sharing Information with other Grant Makers We reserve the right to share information on applications received and information received from organisations which have a grant with other grant makers unless an organisation expressly requests otherwise. All personal data will be dealt with in line with current General Data Protection policies. About the Alex Ferry Foundation Our Partners About Alex Ferry Community Grants Alex Ferry Foundation 10 Salamanca Place Vauxhall London SE1 7HB Latest tweets "Special Economic Zones can be shaped to serve communities – not just corporations". Another interesting piece from @CLESthinkdo to follow their Guide to Special Economic Zones, produced with our support earlier this year. Read the full article: https://cles.org.uk/blog/shaping-special-economic-zones-to-work-for-communities/ Sign up for our newsletter