Applying For Funding Our foundation runs a number of grant programmes throughout the year for organisations supporting people over 65 and an annual income under £250,000 p.a. Our foundation runs a number of grant programmes throughout the year for organisations supporting people over 65 and an annual income under £250,000 p.a. Festive Connections Grants Programme - Applications now closed We’re pleased to announce that the McCarthy Stone Foundation is awarding grants of up to £750 to support over 30 charitable organisations to provide festive celebrations and connection for the over 65’s in the most deprived parts of the country. Timings for the upcoming grants round are as follows: 10th September – Grant applications open 3rd October, 5pm – Grant applications close By 25th October – Applicants informed of outcome and payments made shortly afterwards. Our grants guidance is here. Creating Connections Grants Programme - Now closed Our Creating Connections Grant Programme will be awarding 20+ grants of up to £7,500 to charities and community groups who are helping to reduce loneliness and isolation for the over 65’s. You may be providing direct person-centered interventions such as befriending OR group based social activities. We also support Community Transport who assist in bringing together older people. Timings for the upcoming grants round are as follows: 1st August: Applications Open. 29th August: Applications Closed – shortlisting and due diligence takes place. 11th September: Shortlisted applications go to Grants Sub-Committee. 25th September: Sub-Committee meets and recommends awards. 2nd October: Trustee Board meets to approve awards. 6th October: Applicants informed of outcome. Welcome Wednesdays - Community Socials In April 2024 we introduced our Welcome Wednesday Programme, to provide connection and purpose to over 65’s in deprived parts of the country. Initially piloted in 2 locations, the Foundation funds a free hot drink and lunch within community cafes, inviting local people to interact and allowing new friendships to flourish. Staffed by McCarthy Stone volunteers where possible, the initiative has seen great success and is now taking place in 7 locations. We can see that there is great potential for this to grow rapidly, but we want to ensure that we first fully establish and review the existing groups before expanding further. With this in mind, our Welcome Wednesday programme is not currently open for new applications. Core Cost Funding The Foundation awards unrestricted core funding to grassroots charitable organisations, who have people over 65 at the heart of their work. Unrestricted funding is only available to registered charities and community groups. We do not fund unrestricted to Community Interest Companies. Organisations who can demonstrate a strong alignment with our charitable aims are invited to apply for unrestricted funding, currently up to £7500. If you are unsure whether you should apply for core cost funding, please get in touch for advice. We know that many small organisations don’t have the resources for complex or extensive grant applications and monitoring, so we will do our best to work with you to make the process simple, transparent, and fair. We will also work with you to help report on the impact the grant will have. You can also find out more in our Grant Making Policy that covers the processes and criteria in greater depth. Project Funding We also invite applications for Project Funding. This funding is open to registered charities, community groups, and community interest companies limited by guarantee. This funding is to support a new, or existing, programme dedicated to supporting people over 65 within an organisation. Although this will typically be restricted, we encourage all organisations submitting an application for project funding to do so on a cost-recovery basis. You can find out more in this article. Please do get in touch for more information.