News & Events Enjoy our selection of true stories New Dementia Grant Programme now open for applications! We are excited to announce that the Foundation will be awarding grants of up to £7,500 to over 20 dementia clubs and memory cafes across the country, all of which play a vital role in supporting people in their communities. Dementia is a cause that deeply resonates with us. Many of us are touched by it, either personally or through friends and family. This is why we’ve launched a grant programme specifically to support small charities that are making a difference for those living with dementia and their carers. Whether you’re running dementia clubs, carer training, or memory cafes, we would love to hear from you. Applications will open on Friday 14th February and you can find out more information and timescales here. https://mccarthystonefoundation.org/our-grant-programmes/ You can apply for funding here: https://mccarthystonefoundation.org/apply To ensure we’re supporting those who need it most, we ask that only organizations with an income of less than £250,000 per year apply. We also require that applicants are registered charities, community groups with a constitution, or Community Interest Companies operating in England, Scotland, or Wales. Your organization must be providing services to adults over 65, aimed at assisting people with dementia and/or their carers. This could include initiatives like dementia memory cafes or carer support courses. We’ll be prioritizing applications from groups working in areas of high deprivation that particularly affect older people. For more information, please refer to our Dementia Grants Programme 2025 Guidance. (Link below) 2025 Dementia Grants Guidance McCarthy Stone colleagues, supply chain partners and homeowners will be taking part in a huge fundraising campaign of activities during Dementia Action Week in May which will help to fund this programme. We are so grateful for their support. Photo courtesy of Memories are Golden