We Believe People Need People When communities thrive, we all benefit, and everyone has a part to play. When communities thrive, we all benefit, and everyone has a part to play. Our Vision Our vision is a society where older people are valued, connected and engaged with their communities. Our mission is to help grassroots charities and community groups support older people by engaging the McCarthy Stone Group, People, Customers, and Partners. We will achieve this through a mixed model approach, led by our grant making programme alongside our community ‘Welcome Wednesdays’. Our Heritage Since 2010 McCarthy Stone has created 540 retirement communities that support more than 23,000 older people, helping to bring people together, improve their wellbeing and help rediscover their purpose in later life. In November 2020, and in line with our purpose to champion the role, wellbeing and happiness of older people, the McCarthy Stone Foundation was launched. Since launching, he foundation has helped more than 450 charitable causes with more than £1 million of grants and project support. Why Now? Loneliness among older adults is a heart-wrenching issue that continues to grow. According to recent data from Age UK, more than 3.8 million older people live alone, facing isolation that only deepens with time unless we step in to help. At the heart of our efforts are the incredible employees, supply chain partners, and homeowners of McCarthy Stone. Their unwavering support and dedication are the driving force behind everything we do. Through their fundraising efforts, which McCarthy Stone matches, every donation is doubled, allowing us to amplify the impact of their generosity. This support directly funds the life-changing work of the charities we partner with, making a real difference in the lives of those in need. We are proud to fund small charities that work tirelessly to bring people together, offering companionship and connection to those who are isolated—whether they live alone or in care homes with no family or friends nearby. Our mission is to help older individuals rediscover the sense of purpose and belonging that is so crucial in later life, ensuring they never feel alone in the world. Meet the Team who are shaping the future of the McCarthy & Stone Foundation Making A Difference "The Foundation supported us at our greatest time of need to keep carrying out vital work, which we simply need to keep going" Jennie Shaw, Wiltshire Bobby Van Trust "With the Foundation's support, our Journey Friends project will offer friendship, activities, and a nutritious lunch to older single adults in local social housing" Elspeth Macpherson, CEO Journey Enterprises "As a small charity, grants from foundations like yours make a huge impact on our survival" Lulu Wood, Buddies Dementia Cafe "This grant enables us to continue creating community links, building intergenerational relationships, and making memories for both the children and the elderly people we visit" Laura Nunn, Green Ridge Academy "The funding will help improve the health and wellbeing of older people, providing opportunities for old and young to get together and share skills and knowledge" Amanda Groves, Alive Activities The McCarthy Stone Foundation is committed to working towards the Sustainable Development Goals , with a focus on the three areas below.