Our next application deadline will be 26 September 2025. Find out more about our strategy here . For our grantees Key Information This section is for those organisations who already receive a grant from the Bromley Trust. If you can’t find what you are looking for then please try the FAQs section below or get in touch with us – we are always happy to hear from you! We believe in trust-based relationships with our grantees and and try to limit the formal reporting requirements that we place on you. However, in return we need you to tell us about certain key developments immediately, including: Change of key members of staff or Chair; Major change of direction or policy for the organisation; Funding crisis or other threat to the viability of the organisation; Serious incident which you report to the Charity Commission or another regulator; Any safeguarding issue involving the organisation or its staff; or A potential merger. You can download a sample copy of our general grant conditions below: If you would like a copy of our logo to use on your website or any other publicity material then please do get in touch. If we fund you then we are interested in your work. The information you share enables us to gain a wider understanding of the sectors we support and informs our future grant-making. Please feel free to email us updates at any time. We particularly encourage you to let us know when you’re experiencing difficulties so that we can help if we are able to. Annual Monitoring (for multi-year grants only) We ask for an annual monitoring report for every multi-year grant we fund. The deadline for submission is usually around six weeks before your next payment is due (December for those grants due to be paid in February and June for those due to be paid in August). All second and third year instalments are conditional upon satisfactory monitoring and our Trustees will not approve your next payment if the report is not submitted. We will send you a link to an online form approximately four weeks before the deadline. We also ask that you email us your annual accounts and trustee report each year as soon as they are available. You can download an example of our monitoring form below but please note that we can only accept versions submitted through our online system. End of Grant Report (for both multi-year and single-year grants) We ask all grantees to send us a final report one month after the grant period has ended. We may request this sooner if we are considering a re-application for further funding from you. There isn’t an online form for this but please include the following information: A summary of the outputs and outcomes from the work during the grant period; Any key learning points; and A brief financial report confirming that the grant has been spent in full or detailing any underspend and a proposal for how you would like to use this, if agreed. The document should ideally be between two and four sides of A4. Existing grantee partners may be invited to re-apply during the latter half of their final year of grant, if they still fit within our grant-making strategy and criteria. You can talk to your Grants Manager if you have any questions about this. However please note that the Trust does not fund any organisation indefinitely, and competition for funds is high. Any re-applications from existing grantee partners will be considered alongside new applications received from other charities, and everyone will complete the same application form and undergo the same assessment process. You can download an example copy of our first stage application form below, but please complete this online. The link can be found at the end of the eligibility quiz, on the Apply for Funding page. The Bromley Trust takes the safeguarding of all those involved with our own work or that of our grantees very seriously. One of our grant conditions is that you let us know of any safeguarding issues that occur within your organisation. Reporting this to us does not mean that we will no longer be able to support you – we understand that the detection and proper handling of a safeguarding issue can demonstrate that you have strong and robust policies in place. We will want to know what action you have taken or are taking to resolve the situation and to reduce the likelihood of a further occurrence. For further information please see: Charity Commission guidance on safeguarding: England and Wales Northern Ireland Scotland England and Wales Northern Ireland Scotland NSPCC – free checklists and resources for safeguarding children Contextual Safeguarding Programme – learning, resources and tips for safeguarding children and young people from the University of Bedfordshire NCVO Knowhow Nonprofit – a collection of free safeguarding resources The Bromley Trust has received recognition as a Living Wage Funder in the UK from the Living Wage Foundation. We believe that properly paid employment is the surest way out of poverty for working age people and have joined the Living Wage Foundation to work together to end low pay in the voluntary and community sector. The legal minimum wage is £12.21 an hour for those aged over 21 in the UK. The National Living Wage, a voluntary rate which is set independently of Government and calculated in accordance with the basic cost of living, is higher at £12.60 (£13.85 in London) and applies to all those over 18 (2024/25 rates). We understand that many of the charities we support may not currently be able to pay all of their staff the National or London Living Wage. This does not mean that you cannot receive a grant from the Trust – we do not stipulate in our grant conditions that you must be a Living Wage Employer. We usually provide unrestricted funding, but where we are funding a specific post we encourage you to cost and pay this at at least the Living Wage rate. We will discuss your situation with you during our grant assessment and monitoring processes. Our aim is to promote the Real Living Wage and the benefits of the scheme amongst our applicants and grantees, as well as to other Funders and partners. Find out more on the Living Wage Foundation’s website here: Find out more Other support We use cookies. Read more about them in our Privacy Policy . Accept cookies Reject cookies