Our next application deadline will be 17 March 2025. Find out more about our strategy here . Special Awards The Bromley Briefings We fund the Prison Reform Trust to regularly produce and publish the Bromley Briefings Prison Factfile. Based on Toby Bromley’s original ‘naive notes’ on prison reform, the Bromley Briefings ensure that up to date, fully referenced facts and figures about what is happening in prisons are made publicly available. The briefings are written in a clear and concise way and are accessible to a wide range of people in the criminal justice sector. We hope that the information in them is used to effect much needed systemic change. Keith Bromley Award for Education & Skills Training The Butler Trust celebrates the outstanding dedication, skill and creativity of those working in prisons, probation, and youth justice settings across the UK. They run an annual awards ceremony where we sponsor the Keith Bromley Award for Education & Skills Training. These awards, and related work, help to publicise and spread good practice in the criminal justice system. Keith Bromley Hardman Awards The Hardman Trust supports people on long sentences to build a brighter future, creating a ripple effect of positive change for themselves, their families, and the entire community. They provide tailored practical and financial support to help people find belonging, move into work or training and reach their personal goals. Hardman Awards are given each year in Keith Bromley’s name to people in prison seeking employment/business opportunities in practical trades upon release. They help people who have served 10 years or more get their lives back on track. We also help to fund their annual Hardman Directory publication. This is a valuable guide to sourcing funding and financial support for prisoners and people who have left prison, which can help with resettlement into the community. Keith Bromley Scholarship Award for Nature Photography / Multi-Media Koestler Arts aims to encourage people in the criminal justice system to change their lives by participating in the arts. They name a Keith Bromley Award winner in their annual arts competition. We also sponsor a Keith Bromley Scholarship Award for Nature Photography / Multi-Media. This provides an ex-prisoner with a year’s arts mentoring support to help them learn new skills and gain the confidence to live a positive and productive life. We use cookies. Read more about them in our Privacy Policy . Accept cookies Reject cookies