Privacy policy Privacy policy How we collect your information The information we hold about you is collected by how you engage with us such as processing your application through our website, via email, the post, over the phone or from discussions with you. We may sometimes use information that is publicly available to gain a better understanding of your charity when assessing grants or donations. The type of information we hold and why we use it The information we hold will include your name, address, telephone number, email address and bank details which are needed to process and pay grants and donations. Will we shall your information with anyone else? We will not sell or swap your information with any agency or other charity. We will not share personal information about you or with third parties without your consent unless permitted to do so by law (for example to government bodies and law enforcement agencies). Storing your information We will hold your personal information on our secured systems for as long as is necessary for the relevant activity (usually a maximum of 6 years) or as long as is set out in any relevant contract you hold with us. We are committed to ensuring that your information is secure. In order to prevent unauthorised access or disclosure, we have put in place suitable physical, electronic and managerial procedures to safeguard and secure the information we collect. What are cookies? A cookie is a small file which a website places on your computer’s hard drive to perform some user specific website related functionality. Cookies can then be used to help understand how the site or service is being used, help you navigate between pages efficiently, help remember your preferences, and generally improve your browsing experience. You can choose to accept or decline cookies. Most web browsers automatically accept cookies, but you can usually modify your browser setting to decline cookies if you prefer. This may prevent you from taking full advantage of the website. Use of cookies We do not make any attempt to find out the identities of those visiting this website. A cookie in no way gives us access to your computer or any information about you, other than the data you choose to share with us. We use Google Analytics cookies to collect anonymised visitor statistics about this website. Changes to the policy We may update our privacy policy from time to time. Please check this page occasionally to ensure you are happy with any updates. Your rights You have the right to ask for any personal information we hold about you. If you believe that any information we are holding on you is incorrect or incomplete, please write to or email us as soon as possible. We will promptly correct any information found to be incorrect. How to contact us If you have any questions or concerns about our use of your personal information, please email the Trust manager at michelej@taylorclark.co.uk