About News Contact us Giving Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Grants Impact Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Oxfordshire Uncovered As part of our mission to continuously increase investment in Oxfordshire, we work with charitable trusts and statutory funders that would like to outsource part or all of their grant-making. We are also able to handle the transfer of dormant or moribund trusts. We often work on behalf of other funding bodies enabling them to support many smaller local Oxfordshire-based projects. Our partnerships with organisations such as the National Emergencies Trust and Oxfordshire County Council helps them to channel vital funding into our network of local causes. They use OCF’s local knowledge and administrative services to make grants that fit their criteria and strategy. Various different models of outsourcing are possible, and they all depend on the budget available. More intensive processes are only possible with larger amounts of grant funds. These can be summarised as follows: Type Amount Description Pooled No fixed amount Third-party funds are used to contribute towards an existing round of funding that OCF is already planning to administer with other funders Bespoke/open £100,000+ An open round of funding is run solely for the funder, with the opportunity to apply advertised publicly on OCF’s website, e-newsletter and socials Closed £50,000–£100,000 A hand-picked longlist of groups is invited to apply, based on the interests of the funder and OCF’s advice on the potential grantees in our database Donor-advised Under £50,000 The funder selects a small group of charities for funding, following agreed criteria, and makes a request to OCF Many private charitable trusts become dormant because they have difficulty identifying beneficiaries, or because the trustees and founders find the administration and responsibility of running a charity becoming too onerous. A dormant trust’s funds can be revitalised by being released to OCF, where they can be used to support areas of current need in Oxfordshire. This service is endorsed by the Charity Commission (see acknowledgement below). Contact our Deputy CEO Kate Parrinder to set up a conversation or meeting. OCF Charity Commission acknowledgement “OCF has been a key partner in delivering efficient, effective and independent rounds of community funding. Their evidence-based approach and broad reach into the community sector has helped us deliver support across Oxfordshire’s communities in a way that is transparent as well as fast.” Ark T Centre The Ark T Centre is an arts project in East Oxford, and is situated in a high-risk area for Child Sexual Exploitation (CSE). Ark T is an open and inclusive community, where people, art, and powerful ideas come together, using the transformative powers of creativity to change lives. SOFEA SOFEA’s mission is to enable the transformation of people’s lives, and their communities, with a major focus on young people. They enable people to fulfil their potential through work, wellbeing, study and purpose projects, providing the means of reducing the immediate effects of disadvantage by relieving food insecurity in the wider community. Good Food Oxford (GFO) Good Food Oxford supports the existing work of many organisations in and around the city working to make our food system more nourishing, less wasteful and more sustainable. Thrive Thrive offers activity clubs and mentoring for young people in two of Oxford’s most deprived areas – Blackbird Leys and Barton. Their clubs and activities are countering the effects of social exclusion.