About News Contact us Giving Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Grants Impact Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Oxfordshire Uncovered During 2023–24 we awarded £1.9 million to charities, social enterprises and community groups in Oxfordshire through a range of grants. These focused on tackling unaffordable essentials, addressing poor health, countering lack of opportunity and alleviating loneliness and fear. Investing in preventative measures and resilience, alongside immediate relief, has been the key focus for the year. In 2023 we published the second edition of Oxfordshire Uncovered . This revealed some of the surprising and concerning issues affecting the most vulnerable people in the county, and the barriers that stop them from thriving. Our annual impact report shares some stories of hope about the investments we make into dynamic local organisations that are directly tackling these issues. Read our impact report to find out more about the work of OCF, made possible thanks to our fundholders, donors and supporters. Take a look at our video to hear from individuals about how their lives have been transformed thanks to grant-making from OCF. You can also download a PDF version of our Impact Report >> Help us to continue our work in Oxfordshire, where every pound has a transformative impact. You can help by getting involved in personal, collective or corporate giving. Find out more about our giving options . We publish full details of all the organisations we have supported via 360Giving , the open data source for grant funders. For a full list of OCF grants made since 2013, see our open data page. “I am delighted that via our fund with OCF we can join together with other donors to support causes we are all passionate about. It means we can do more good by working as a collective.” “Oxfordshire Community Foundation was our seed funding and absolutely key to our development as an organisation. I feel indebted to OCF for believing in the model and supporting us – particularly in the early days.” “OCF has been a key partner in delivering efficient, effective and independent rounds of community funding. Their evidence-based approach and broad reach into the community sector has helped us deliver support across Oxfordshire’s communities in a way that is transparent as well as fast.” Read the latest news from OCF about the impact of our grant-making: The Didcot Powerhouse Fund shares latest impact of 21 local projects in the Didcot area Funds raised by businesses at Raise’24 reach 10 beneficiary charities supporting people at every stage of life Living Essentials Fund awards over £270k to charitable organisations in Oxfordshire