About News Contact us Giving Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Grants Impact Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Oxfordshire Uncovered Having a place to call home, which is warm and with readily available food, is something many of us take for granted. Yet for the most vulnerable in our county this may be unaffordable. Food insecurity, keeping warm and having stable housing continue to be a huge challenge for some Oxfordshire residents. We are dedicated to raising awareness and funds around this issue. Could you or your business join us in stepping up to this challenge? The Living Essentials Fund will make grants to grassroots charitable organisations working to help the most disadvantaged in our county who are struggling to afford the basics for living a stable and safe life. We will fund charitable organisations that are helping people with unaffordable essentials such as homelessness, food insecurity and warmth as well as debt advice. Work to be funded will deliver one or more of these outcomes: Preventative solutions that help individuals build financial stability Support for community resilience, including mitigating summer heat or autumn/winter cold Basic services for those in crisis to prevent them slipping into greater need Schemes that improve home comfort and efficiency and address housing insecurity. The grants round opened in September 2024 and is now closed, having received around £400k in applications. Grants will be made in December 2024 to support charitable groups through the critical winter months. Our generous donors and other funding partners are stepping up to support this fund. By working in partnership and pooling funds we are able to have a bigger impact together. Our ambition is now to raise £400,000 in total to meet the demand we know is there for this funding. Our recent research report Oxfordshire Uncovered showcases the fact that too many of Oxfordshire’s residents are facing a daily struggle to secure a safe place to call home, which is warm and with readily available healthy food. Although the cost-of-living crisis has eased for some, the lack of affordability of other essentials such as fuel and food is still affecting many households, adding to the squeeze on household finances. Energy bills are expected to increase by 9% in October 2024 (BBC News, 2024), whilst alongside this Oxford residents spend even more of their income on rent than those in London . Those on the lowest incomes are also burdened with historic debt, eating into savings and putting them at risk of homelessness, affecting children and families. Our Living Essentials Fund builds on our previous grant-making through our Cost of Living Fund where we awarded grants totalling £559,000 during 2022 and 2023. Crucially, Oxfordshire has a precious network of grassroots organisations that are doing essential work to help people stay afloat: They know and understand the need in their communities, enabling them to make local choices that are best for their neighbourhoods. These small organisations have excellent reach into the most disadvantaged areas, and have the trust of hard-to-reach communities. They offer an essential safety net, filling the gap for what the state cannot provide. Grants to these organisations will deliver help where it is needed most, supporting the smallest charities to continue their critical work. OCF believes that by investing in the smallest organisations, many of which are run by volunteers and have no capacity for their own fundraising, we will be making the biggest impact with the funds we have available. The best way to donate to our Living Essentials Fund is online via our Enthuse donation platform. Enthuse gathers Gift Aid for us and makes the process easy for you. Donate online now Payment by bank transfer can be made. Please contact the team on 01865 798 666 or ocf@oxfordshire.org and we will share our bank details. Don’t forget to complete a Gift Aid form to really boost the value of your donation. If you would prefer to donate by CAF or cheque , please make it payable to “Oxfordshire Community Foundation”, write “Living Essentials Fund” on the reverse, and post it to us at 3 Woodin’s Way, Oxford, OX1 1HD. A 25% uplift is also added to your donation via Gift Aid wherever possible. Thank you so much for supporting us in this appeal. £270,000 has been distributed to 33 charitable organisations with funding from Oxfordshire Community Foundation’s Living Essentials Fund. This is empowering them to deliver their work through the winter months to Oxfordshire residents who are struggling to provide the essentials for themselves and their families. £270,000 has been distributed to 33 charitable organisations with funding from Oxfordshire Community Foundation’s Living Essentials Fund. This is empowering them to deliver their work through the winter months to Oxfordshire residents who are struggling to provide the essentials for themselves and their families.