About News Contact us Giving Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Grants Impact Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Oxfordshire Uncovered Oxfordshire Community Foundation (OCF) is a charity that builds thriving communities through effective philanthropy. Since 1995 we’ve improved lives and tackled inequality by investing in our dynamic charitable sector. We distribute around £2 million in grants every year across Oxfordshire. We work with philanthropists, businesses and the public sector, pooling funds to make a bigger difference together. Do you want to support people and communities in Oxfordshire in a meaningful, impactful way? We get to the root of social issues, and work with our networks in the local charitable sector to direct your generosity where it is most needed. You can help by getting involved in personal, collective or corporate giving. Nervous is the word used most by children from the villages when asked how they feel about moving to secondary school in September. “I just need people to be kind to me.” The Didcot Powerhouse Fund enabled a community support project for around 100 children and their families. “This grant has made a difference by enabling us to regularly open our beautiful green community space for volunteers and visitors. For many, these outdoor opportunities for connection have been the only social space they have felt safe to enter and as such it has been a real life line for their well-being.” “I can’t thank you enough for what you have done for me and my daughter. Watching her health decline over lockdown, her anxiety and depression increasing to the point where she was cutting herself, was the most painful thing I have ever experienced. Taking part in BOOST has changed our lives.” “The Step Change Fund has transformed how we can work, enabling closer working relationships with other agencies, saving travel and administrative time, releasing funds to support staff training, and allowing us to increase the number of people we can support.” “We love OCF – the application form is easy to use and the money is distributed quickly. Throughout the pandemic you have been our rock, providing useful webinars and funding when we needed it the most. Thank you.” The Thriving in Nature Fund helps more people prosper by engaging with green spaces and the rural environment. The focus is on improving health and wellbeing, and nurturing work opportunities, by supporting charitable organisations to unite people with nature. Following a hugely successful first round of funding, OCF has now launched a second round of funding, with grants being paid in summer 2025. We are continuing to build a committed group of donors with a shared passion for this issue to come on board and support this fund. With your help, we can improve the health and wellbeing of those most in need through the benefits of nature. Could you or your organisation help us to deliver a second round of funding by becoming a donor to our Thriving in Nature Fund? Grants to the local charitable sector £1.9 million in grants awarded in 2023-24 In the year to March 2024, we distributed £1.9 million to around 200 charitable organisation in Oxfordshire and beyond. We have a set of five values that were devised in collaboration with OCF staff, supporting our goal to be the gold-standard in grant-making. Our values are the fundamental beliefs and principles that guide us as an organisation. They represent who we are and what we stand for, helping us to make decisions and create a positive work environment for everyone who works with us. 13 new grants awarded to help Oxfordshire communities thrive in nature OCF secures £50k match fund for B4’s Raise’25 initiative Partnership with OCF enables the Beard Charitable Foundation to maximise local impact OCF’s evolving approach to grant-making: listening, learning and leading Opt in to receive our e-newsletter The Dandelion and other updates.