About News Contact us Giving Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Grants Impact Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Oxfordshire Uncovered Do you want to support people and communities in Oxfordshire in a meaningful, impactful way? We ensure your giving makes a real difference to communities right on your doorstep. We get to the root of social issues, and work with our networks in the local charitable sector to direct your generosity where it is most needed. You can help by getting involved in personal, collective or corporate giving. As a well-established grant-maker supporting hundreds of genuine initiatives every year, we have developed robust due diligence processes to ensure your giving makes a lasting difference locally. With an endowment worth over £6.6 million, our long-term stability is secure. Working to understand what inspires you, we will help to guide your giving journey. Whether you are giving to causes close to your heart as an individual or family, fulfilling your organisation’s CSR objectives, or want to join with others to make a bigger difference together, we can find a giving option that feels exciting for you. Want to find out who else we work with? Discover some of our key donors and fundholders Tailor your local philanthropy to your personal interests or those of your family. Through a bespoke named fund, legacy or portfolio of giving, we can help you bring your commitment to Oxfordshire alive. Support your organisation’s CSR or charitable funding objectives. Whether you represent a local business, a trust or foundation, or a statutory body, we can offer robust, dynamic ways to get your funding into the community. Give with people who share your philanthropic interests and make a bigger difference together. By supporting a collective fund, you can direct your giving towards a particular geography or issue. If you know you want to support Oxfordshire and trust us to direct your funds to the most pressing cause of the moment, you can make a donation of any size quickly and easily. We can collect Gift Aid too.