About News Contact us Giving Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Grants Impact Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Oxfordshire Uncovered Make a difference in your community – in partnership and with impact The Oxfordshire Collective Business Fund is a way for local businesses to make our county a better place to live and work, by pooling your funds together with other companies to amplify your reach and impact. Through a collective fund, local businesses significantly increase their positive impact by combining contributions in one fund from which grants are made annually to Oxfordshire charitable organisations. Oxfordshire businesses are already committed to corporate social responsibility (CSR). However, our research shows that: 84% do not have a proactive CSR strategy 60% would like their charitable giving to be more strategic 30% receive an unsolicited charity request every fortnight REPUTATION : 77% of consumers are more likely to use companies committed to making the world a better place RETENTION : corporate social responsibility can reduce employee turnover by approximately 50% PRODUCTIVITY : 90% of employees working at companies with a strong sense of purpose are more inspired and motivated You have an easy, simple way to fulfil your CSR objectives You can be sure you are addressing the social issues most pressing to the communities where you operate You will receive impact reports to share with your customers, clients and stakeholders You have reassurance that your CSR is making a genuine difference We pool your funds together with other businesses to amplify your reach and impact We identify frontline charities and community projects that you might not otherwise be aware of We are Quality Accredited confirming our excellence in governance, finance, philanthropy, and grant making, through OCF’s membership of the UK network of community foundations We conduct due diligence on grantees and report back to donors on the impact of their giving Oxfordshire’s prosperous economy hides serious social problems . One in five children in Oxford lives in poverty, and 15 neighbourhoods across the county are in the 20% most deprived in England. Oxford’s Key Stage 2 (age 7–11) school results are in the bottom 25% nationally, affecting young people’s job prospects and creating local skills shortages. Local businesses contribute £2,000 or more per year to the fund, which is held and managed by OCF Currently, the fund supports OCF’s priority grant-making themes Once we have 50 businesses joining the fund, OCF will run a dedicated grants round from the fund, awarding around £100k annually to local charitable organisations OCF provides an annual summary to support businesses’ CSR reporting, which evidences the fund’s impact As OCF is growing the fund from its early stages, we are directing your donations towards our priority grant-making themes. Over the past two years, the most pressing priority has been to tackle the cost-of-living crisis. Please contact our Deputy CEO Kate Parrinder , who will be happy to explain how you can join the collective fund. “Prodrive’s commitment to the local community has always been a source of pride. Supporting the collective business fund means we are now also supporting unsung local charities that do essential work to alleviate disadvantage in our county.” “This new initiative from Oxfordshire Community Foundation allows local businesses to work collectively to address some of the county’s most serious social problems. For RWK Goodman it enables us to be a responsible business and have a positive impact in the communities we operate in.” Ark T Centre The Ark T Centre is an arts project in East Oxford, and is situated in a high-risk area for Child Sexual Exploitation (CSE). Ark T is an open and inclusive community, where people, art, and powerful ideas come together, using the transformative powers of creativity to change lives. SOFEA SOFEA’s mission is to enable the transformation of people’s lives, and their communities, with a major focus on young people. They enable people to fulfil their potential through work, wellbeing, study and purpose projects, providing the means of reducing the immediate effects of disadvantage by relieving food insecurity in the wider community. Good Food Oxford (GFO) Good Food Oxford supports the existing work of many organisations in and around the city working to make our food system more nourishing, less wasteful and more sustainable. Thrive Thrive offers activity clubs and mentoring for young people in two of Oxford’s most deprived areas – Blackbird Leys and Barton. Their clubs and activities are countering the effects of social exclusion.