About News Contact us Giving Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Grants Impact Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Oxfordshire Uncovered Oxfordshire Community Foundation improve lives and tackle inequality by investing in Oxfordshire’s dynamic charitable sector through grant-making. We give around £2million every year, funding around 200 grassroots charitable organisations each year. Charitable groups across Oxfordshire can apply to one of our regular grants rounds, which cater for small and medium organisations. We do our very best to give as much notice as possible about upcoming grants rounds to help you with your planning. As well as our own funds, we distribute grants of different sizes from national, statutory, corporate and personal funders in response to the needs of communities in Oxfordshire. Do you have any questions about funding from OCF? We’d love to have a chat and find out more about your work and funding needs. For a quick question – Drop the Grants team an email at grants@oxfordshire.org, call on 01865 798666 or 07927 539699, or send a WhatsApp message on 07927 539699 For a more in-depth chat – Arrange a time to have an online conversation with Claire Hughes, our Head of Grants and Inclusion Book a meeting Scroll down to see our current grants programmes. Click on ‘Find out more’ to find full details of each programme, including guidance notes and how to apply. Note the Step Change Fund grants are always open on a rolling basis. Take a look at our general grant-making policy in addition to round-specific criteria that may also apply. Please sign up for our email updates or follow us on social media to be informed about our latest grants news. Do check our other sources of funding links further down this page. - Helping Oxfordshire's residents live independently and healthily for as long as possible in their lives - Grants cover ongoing running costs, project, capital and promotional costs - Transformational change for charitable organisations to build a stronger base for delivering their core work - Core costs, project costs and capital costs - Helping people with unaffordable essentials such as homelessness, food insecurity and warmth as well as debt advice. - Grants cover ongoing running costs, project, capital and promotional costs - Grant Theme 2025 - Local support for those who need it most - Funding for project operating costs, including a proportionate share of overheads - Open to groups working in the Didcot surroundings - Improving health and wellbeing, and nurturing work opportunities, by supporting charitable organisations to unite people with nature - Funding for core costs, capital costs or project costs By applying to one of the grant programmes outlined here, you are accessing money from all of our private and corporate funders. The Midcounties Cooperative Community Fund provides grants of up to £500 to community groups all over the UK. They are looking for groups who align with their cooperative values and through their projects empower their members/service users and wider community to achieve more. Find out more The Fore offer multi-year unrestricted funding of up to £30,000 to help applicants grow, strengthen, become more efficient or resilient. They run three funding rounds each year – Spring, Summer and Autumn. Find out more The Paul Hamlyn Foundation Youth Fund supports organisations whose main purpose is working with and for young people (aged 14-25) who face complex transitions to adulthood. Find out more The Foyle Foundation have updated their guidance for applications to all their grants. Their small grants scheme focus is for one-year grants only, to cover core costs, projects, essential equipment or building projects. Find out more . Their main grants scheme supports charities with a core remit of the Arts or Learning. Find out more National Lottery Community Fund award money raised by National Lottery players to fund great ideas that help communities to thrive and are open to all applications that meet their criteria. Groups can apply for funding under £10,000, or over £10,000, depending on what they want to do. Find out more City of Oxford Charity grants for the benefit of the residents of the city of Oxford who find themselves in need, sickness or hardship. Any organisation engaged in supporting local people can apply for their grants on behalf of a client – those experiencing hardship who have need for specific items, including uniforms or school equipment. Find out more Oxford City Council have the new Oxford Community Impact Fund which replaces all former funding programmes for communities including: Culture Fund, Green Neighbourhood Scheme, Youth Ambition Fund, Youth Ambition Holiday Activities Fund, Small Grants and Open Bidding. Find out more Event Cycle take unwanted event waste and give it a second life. Sign your charity up and let them know what you need. Find out more Giving World redistributes business surplus stock to communities in need. You can view available products on their website and register your charity or community group to request items and receive stock updates. Find out more Barchester Charitable Foundation aims to helps older people and adults with a disability across England, Scotland & Wales. Their focus is about connecting or re-connecting people with others in their local community, and they support applications that combat loneliness and enable people to be active and engaged. Find out more Esmée Fairbairn Foundation have adapted their funding goals to Our Natural World, A Fairer Future and Creative, Confident Communities. Find out more Tudor Trust core funding for small community-led groups supporting marginalised people, encouraging inclusion, integration, and independence. They also offer unrestricted funding, project grants, capital grants, grants to help strengthen your organisation, and short-term loans, with no maximum or minimum grant, on a rolling basis. Find out more Shanly Foundation primarily supports good causes predominantly within Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Hertfordshire, Oxfordshire, West Sussex and parts of Surrey and Hampshire. These include scouting and guide groups, schools, community groups, sporting groups, social and community events as well as registered charities. Find out more The Ann Rylands Small Donations programme makes grants to support charities’ core costs with a maximum award of up to £5,000. The programme was re-launched in January 2022 to enable the Trust to increase support for smaller charities whose work aligns with their mission to improve provision in health and care, particularly for older people, people with disabilities or living with serious illness, people needing palliative and end of life care, or people facing challenges with mental health, social exclusion or homelessness. Find out more Trust for Oxfordshire’s Environment (TOE) Local Environment Fund for community groups and other charitable or non-profit organisations throughout Oxfordshire. Grants of up to £25,000 can be used to deliver projects that support priorities for biodiversity, public access and the climate and they assess grant applications four times a year. Find out more The Good Exchange is for charitable organisations operating within a 20 mile radius of Market Place, Newbury. They can use The Good Exchange platform which is owned and run by charity Greenham Trust, to apply for grants, fundraise and drive donations via a single application process. Find out more Turn2Us helps individual people in financial need gain access to welfare benefits, charitable grants and other financial help – online, by phone and face to face through partner organisations. Find out more Angus Irvine Playing Fields Fund (AIPFF) exists to increase opportunities for kids and young people in inner-city and disadvantaged areas to play sport and enjoy its many benefits. They provide grant funding to community clubs, many of which are volunteer led. Find out more The Wolfson Foundation provides funding for places. These grants are for capital initiatives, i.e. buildings (new build or refurbishment) and equipment. They fund a broad range of organisations working across the fields of education, science & medicine, health & disability, heritage, humanities & the arts. Find out more Screwfix Foundation provides grants of up to £5,000 to local charities and not-for-profit organisations for projects that will fix, repair, maintain and improve properties and community facilities for those in need in the UK. They run four funding rounds each year. Find out more Westgate Oxford’s Landsec Community Grants offer unrestricted grants of up to £3,000 which are designed to support not-for-profit organisations with daily activities. Open to groups within a reasonable distance to Oxford’s Westgate shopping centre. They run four funding rounds each year. Find out more We also regularly share information on Facebook and X (formerly Twitter) about other upcoming funding opportunities that we become aware of. Follow us to be in the know. OCVA (Oxfordshire Community and Voluntary Action) is the leading charity support organisation in the county. OCVA provides advice, networking events, volunteer brokerage and training in a wide variety of relevant subjects, from marketing to first aid. Find out more ROBIN (Responsible Oxfordshire Business Involvement Network) is a network of like-minded people from businesses and public sector bodies who want to collaborate and support charities and community groups (Associate members) by sharing skills and resources creatively. These can be one-off opportunities, but so often lead to the development of closer relationships and further new opportunities and associations. Find out more NEXUS is a partnership programme from which connects businesses with charities, social enterprises and start-ups. They signpost information and host events to facilitate introductions and sharing experiences. They enable members to collaborate, learn and grow as part of a like-minded community. Read more about OCF and NEXUS Oxfordshire Volunteers is a county-wide website that brings together potential volunteers with charities looking for help. You can post regular or occasional volunteering opportunities, including trustee roles, to be added to the searchable database. Visit the site Charity Mentors is a charity that matches charity leaders with pro bono professional mentors, all of whom have had experience of running and growing a business in the private or public sector. Find out more OCF’s evolving approach to grant-making: listening, learning and leading Thriving in Nature Fund opens for second year of grantmaking Oxfordshire Community Foundation announce grant-making plans for 2025 Funds raised by businesses at Raise’24 reach 10 beneficiary charities supporting people at every stage of life