About News Contact us Giving Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Grants Impact Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Oxfordshire Uncovered The Thriving in Nature Fund helps more people prosper by engaging with green spaces and the rural environment. The focus is on improving health and wellbeing, and nurturing work opportunities, by supporting charitable organisations to unite people with nature. Oxfordshire is filled with stunning countryside, beautiful parks and rolling farmland. It is a wonderful asset, but the opportunities it offers are not necessarily reaching those most in need. Access to natural spaces can be challenging for several reasons. Lack of transport to quality green spaces may be a challenge for families unable to afford a car, and not having knowledge of the Countryside Code can make accessing them intimidating. For some groups, including vulnerable women, younger people, disabled people and people from ethnic minorities, natural spaces may feel inaccessible, havens for antisocial behaviour or less enjoyable because they don’t feel familiar or secure. Having access to green spaces that are safe and visible helps nurture a feeling of accessibility for everyone. Several of the most deprived areas in Oxfordshire match directly the areas where both obesity and mental health are the greatest challenges, and these areas tend to be in the urban parts of the county. Obesity means people are less likely to be in employment, and reduces life expectancy by an average of three years. The natural environment is well documented as benefiting both mental and physical wellbeing. The positive effects of spending time in green spaces can range from reducing feelings of stress or anger, improving physical health, helping to become more active, reducing loneliness and improving confidence and self-esteem. Our countryside and green spaces are free to access – an affordable and sustainable way of improving wellbeing. Our green spaces also provide an opportunity to promote rural skills, training and employment. Enabling people from disadvantaged communities to connect with these opportunities will help them to thrive, as well as contribute to addressing the workforce shortages. Thanks to the support of a committed cohort of donors and funders, OCF’s first ever round of Thriving in Nature grants were paid in August 2024, with multi-year grants totalling £494k given to 14 small local charities. The grants we’ve already made are proving to benefit both mental and physical wellbeing: Long Mead Foundation (£59,612 over three years) is working with volunteers to overcome mental health issues by carrying out an ambitious meadow and floodplain restoration. Oxford Community Action (£51,311 over three years) is supporting people from minoritised backgrounds to feel the benefits of nature through guided hikes and bike rides. Cheney School Association (£9,000 over two years) is improving students’ behaviour and wellbeing by transforming inner courtyards of the school into lively green spaces. 21st Century Thame (£9,884 over two years) is helping women and girls move on from abuse and trauma through regenerative agriculture. Read the latest report on the 2024 Thriving in Nature grants showing the progress that all grantees have made so far. In August 2025 we held our second Thriving in Nature grants panel, where £250k in multi-year funding was awarded to 13 different local community groups. In addition, our panel approved a reserve list of eight excellent applications which we would dearly like to support, but for which we don’t currently have funds. This reserve lists totals just over £200k. Any further donations to the fund will now support this reserve list. If you think you can help, you can give up to £5,000 online now on our Thriving in Nature Enthuse page . If you’d prefer to donate by bank transfer, cheque or CAF payment, or if you’re in a position to give a larger amount, please contact OCF’s Deputy Chief Executive Kate Parrinder . Oxfordshire Community Foundation has awarded 13 new grants through its Thriving in Nature Fund, supporting grassroots organisations that connect people with nature to improve wellbeing, inclusion and opportunity. Oxfordshire Community Foundation has awarded 13 new grants through its Thriving in Nature Fund, supporting grassroots organisations that connect people with nature to improve wellbeing, inclusion and opportunity.