About News Contact us Giving Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Grants Impact Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Oxfordshire Uncovered We improve lives and tackle inequality by investing in Oxfordshire’s dynamic charitable sector. Oxfordshire Community Foundation (OCF) is a charity that builds thriving communities through effective philanthropy. Our values are the guiding principles which represent who we are and what we stand for. They stand alongside our vision, mission and objectives to support our goal to be the gold-standard in grant-making. Our county’s wealth, success and beauty hide a number of serious and shocking social problems. The pandemic and the current huge increases in the cost of living have made these issues worse, while the climate crisis is becoming ever more urgent. Local donors choose to work with OCF because we bring an in-depth understanding of these needs and priority issues, alongside trusted relationships with our network of grassroots delivery charities and community groups . We champion this vibrant local charity sector as a crucial way to combat issues such as homelessness, educational inequality, and loneliness and isolation, awarding around £2 million in grants annually. We work with philanthropists, businesses and the public sector, pooling their funds so that they can make a bigger difference together. Funders can feel confident of a safe pair of hands for their contributions, as we implement strong governance processes; conduct thorough due diligence on all grant applications; and report back with inspiring stories on the impact of their support. We have been working in Oxfordshire since 1995. Read more about our history and our role in the UK network of 47 quality-accredited community foundations . The main policies we use to govern our way of working are listed below. These are reviewed from time to time by the Board of trustees. Our Privacy Notice and Website Terms are available in the footer of the website. Complaints and appeals policy Equality, equity, diversity and inclusion policy Safeguarding Policy Grant-making policy Gift acceptance policy Complaints and appeals policy Equality, equity, diversity and inclusion policy Safeguarding Policy Grant-making policy Gift acceptance policy Open data OCF publishes full details of all the organisations it has supported via 360Giving , the open data source for grant funders. you can see a full list of OCF grants made since 2013, on our open data page.