About News Contact us Giving Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Personal giving Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Join our Friends Become a Patron Set up a named fund Leaving a legacy Collective giving Thriving in Nature Fund Thriving in Nature Fund Corporate giving Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Collective Business Fund Grant-making services Tax-efficient giving Services for professional advisors Living Essentials Fund Step Change Fund Key donors and fundholders Donate now Grants Impact Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Reports and publications Case studies Impact videos Oxfordshire Uncovered Setting up a named fund with us is a simple, robust and impactful alternative to setting up your own foundation or charitable trust. You will benefit from OCF’s governance and operational resources, and can be guided by our knowledge of and connections with the local charitable sector. A named fund (sometimes known as a donor-advised fund) is a ringfenced charitable fund held and managed on a donor’s behalf by OCF. It can be an effective way to carry out your personal or corporate charitable ambitions, without the hassle and administration of creating a formal foundation. Compare the advantages of a named fund vs a private foundation A named fund can be a vehicle for your giving in two ways: An individual fund to organise your local giving in one place, simply and effectively A collective fund where donors or businesses pool funds to increase their personal impact. We recommend a minimum commitment of £10,000 annually to set up a named fund. If you have a smaller amount to give, we can talk to you about our existing collective funds and other giving options. OCF takes a limited contribution from all donations received into the fund. This helps support that element of the charity’s running costs that cannot be met through OCF’s own income flows from its investments. The specific contribution level for each fund is agreed in advance with each prospective fundholder. OCF manages named funds for individual philanthropists, local families, and local businesses. They all share in interest in supporting communities in Oxfordshire to thrive and reach their potential, and their funds typically contribute around 40% to our annual grant-making. See some examples of named funds OCF currently holds Gifts made through a named fund enable you to be extremely tax efficient . Whenever appropriate, OCF will reclaim eligible Gift Aid on your donation, adding a further 25% to its value. If you are a higher-rate taxpayer, you can also claim back the difference between higher rate and basic rate tax on the value of your donation. Your fund can be anonymous or named after yourself, a family member, a friend, a company or anything that is personal to you. Your fund can be: a) An investment fund A capital sum is invested with our fund managers CCLA, and the income generated via dividends and RPI gains provides grant-making funds throughout the year. Your investment can be set up as a one-off donation or grown over a number of years. Investments provide a fantastic long-term option, allowing donors to continue giving for years to come. b) A flow-through fund You create a fund with a donation that is immediately available for awarding grants to local projects. Our team will work with you to understand your interests and intentions, and will support you to disburse grants. Flow-through funds are usually topped up annually. Your fund can also combine both investment and flow through. You can be as involved as you want to be in how the fund is used, or you can leave it to us to decide. Our experience of managing funds, together with our research insights , give us an in-depth understanding of the most urgent social problems within Oxfordshire. OCF can make grant payments from a named fund in three ways: Donor-advised : you can make a request for a grant to be made to a charitable organisation from the fund’s available balance at any time. OCF carries out due diligence before making payments. Match-making : OCF can suggest grants to you based on your interests, usually from applications made to our open grants rounds . Open grants : for named funds with larger sums available (usually £100k+), OCF can open a dedicated grants round to which charitable organisations can apply. A fund report is sent annually showing the transactions and value of the fund, and sharing case studies illustrating the impact of grants awarded from the fund. Contact our Deputy CEO Kate Parrinder to set up a conversation or meeting. Comparison between setting up an OCF fund vs your own foundation “It is so uplifting to meet so many people blessed with generous hearts and a deep sense of community.” “I really appreciate your work on what for my parents is such an important project. I am glad that the fund has been developing so positively and swiftly.” “The huge satisfaction to be gained from spending one’s time in giving in your later years far outweighs any pleasures that you can possibly gain on the golf course, on the beach or on the back of the yacht in the Mediterranean sipping martinis.” “I like to have something worthwhile to get up for each morning… I find that the larger and more strategic the gift, the more pleasure I get out of it.” “Working with OCF is the simple way to give to the themes I care about the most. I would never have known about many of the causes I’ve helped without them. They are doing vital work and they need our support.” “I’ve lived in Oxfordshire for many years, and feel I’ve benefited greatly from being in such a thriving and interesting place. Leaving a legacy to OCF in my will is my way of repaying this – and I also trust that they will understand exactly where funds are needed in years to come. Having seen small voluntary sector groups come and go, I find this longevity very reassuring.” “When you become wealthy and you have a lot of money, you’re starting to think about giving it away on a slightly industrial scale! Even if you give away the same percentage as ordinary people, you’re giving away larger sums of money so the way you’re going to do it is different.” “As a partner, OCF provide a mechanism which allows us to channel our philanthropic investment directly into the heart of the projects we care about.” “I opened a fund with OCF because of their knowledge, expertise and extensive contacts. I wanted to be part of it, to make my dream come true in helping the very young – the fund encompasses everything I’ve done in the past and expands the impact I’ve achieved”. “OCF’s knowledge and resources drive real change. They unlock the power of community, allowing people to feel more connected to those around them, and for all who live in Oxfordshire to have better lives.” “I am delighted that via our fund with OCF we can join together with other donors to support causes we are all passionate about. It means we can do more good by working as a collective.” “OCF has been a key partner in delivering efficient, effective and independent rounds of community funding. Their evidence-based approach and broad reach into the community sector has helped us deliver support across Oxfordshire’s communities in a way that is transparent as well as fast.”