Search our site by keyword Enter your search term here… PHF Funding Strategy Published: 5 August 2025 The Peter Harrison Foundation is closed to new funding applications and is operating on an invitation-only basis. This approach will remain in place for the foreseeable future. PHF revised its funding strategy to improve our impact and strengthen our ability to deliver our charitable objectives. This shift followed an unprecedented demand for support, with only about 7% of applications being successful. We recognise the time and resources organisations invest in preparing grant applications and want to avoid charities spending their valuable time on applications when the likelihood of success is so low. Our mission remains: to empower individuals with disabilities or significant disadvantages to reach their full potential. Our refreshed approach emphasises building capacity within the charitable sector through a dual-layered funding model: Capacity-building organisations will receive awards to deliver training, resources, and development support to grass roots organisations at regional or national level. We aim to provide fewer but larger multiyear grants to organisations. Grassroots organisations will benefit from both capacity-building support and direct funding to create life-changing opportunities within their communities. This strategy is the result of a comprehensive review, including informal consultation with applicants and grantees. PHF staff will proactively identify partners whose aims align with our mission. Initially, most partners will be organisations previously funded by PHF. We will monitor progress, gather feedback, and refine our approach over time. PHF remains committed to listening, learning, and supporting the sector responsively to maximise impact. In 2024–25 , PHF awarded 107 grants totalling £1,525,068 . Trustees have pledged to maintain grantmaking at approximately £1.5m per year . So far in 2025–26 , we have awarded 16 grants totalling £470,500 . We will continue to share updates via our website. You can find answers to questions regarding this closure on our FAQs page, including guidance for current grant holders. Thank you for your understanding and for the invaluable work you do in your communities.