Search our site by keyword Enter your search term here… Information for grantees If you have been awarded a grant you can find useful information below including: Accepting you grant offer Publicising your grant Grant reports Key information Publicising your grant Case studies Key information Your grant offer letter needs to be signed by two of your trustees, or senior members of staff who are authorised to sign on behalf of your organisation. It should then be returned to us within two months to accept your grant offer. You will be asked to log into the secure application portal and upload your signed grant offer letter and your organisation’s bank details. Once these are received, we will process your grant payment. All payments are made by bank transfer, and we use the Confirmation of Payee service to verify the identity of recipients. The majority of our multi-year grants are now paid upfront, but we will still require progress reports at the end of each year. All correspondence about your grant will be sent by email to the main contact at your organisation, and only this person will be able to access your online portal. This portal is where you will need to accept your grant offer and submit grant reports. So, if you need to update your organisation’s main contact please email us on enquiries@peterharrisonfoundation.org and the team will be able to help you. You will be expected to submit a report at the end of each year of your grant. To find out more about what information is required, when reports are due and how to submit them go to Submit your grant report The Peter Harrison Foundation is currently closed to applications whilst we review our grantmaking strategy, so it is not possible to make another application at this time . Publicising your grant Information about acknowledging your grant, using our logo and our brand guidelines Case studies Find out more Publicising your grant Find out more about acknowledging your grant and using the PHF logo Submit your grant report See the grant report forms available and start your report Share your story How to submit a case study to be featured on our website