Search our site by keyword Enter your search term here… Submit your grant report Find out when you need to send us a report for your grant, what information to include and how to submit a report When to submit your report Reporting requirements Grant report forms When to submit your report You will need to submit a brief report at the end of each year of your grant, and you will be sent an email reminder including a link directly to the grant report form. You will then have two months to submit your report. We can be flexible about reporting dates, so if this doesn’t fit with your project timescales then please get in touch to discuss a more appropriate schedule. One year grants - a brief final report within 14 months of receiving the grant Two year grants - a brief progress report within 14 months of receiving the grant - a final report within 26 months of receiving the grant Three year grants - a brief progress report within 14 months of receiving the grant - a brief progress report within 26 months of receiving the grant - a final report within 38 months of receiving the grant Reporting requirements Progress report Your organisation Any major news you’d like to share If applicable, any significant changes in management, staffing or policy since the application The last year What difference has the grant has made so far? (comparing what you planned to achieve in your original application with your progress toward this) What has gone well and why? Any outcomes that you had not intended or anticipated, and how you dealt with these The year ahead Do your plans remain the same or have they changed? If they have changed, tell us why and how this affects the outputs and outcomes you set in your original application. To reduce the administrative burden, if you have prepared a similar report for other funders, we are happy to receive a copy of this. Final report (grants awarded after 1 November 2023) A brief final report (see details below) A couple of photos that encapsulate your grant if possible The number of people impacted by your grant Feedback against the outcomes and outputs you provided in your grant application. ( You will be able to see the outcomes and outputs specified in your original application when you log into the portal to complete your report) Your organisation What has changed in your organisation since you received the grant – in terms of the work you do, the strength of the organisation and your financial position. If applicable, any key developments in the final year of the grant Your grant What has been achieved since the grant started? Any outcomes that you had not intended or anticipated? What has gone well and why Any problems you’ve faced and how you’ve tackled them The main lessons you have learned How might you do things differently in the future The future How you plan to continue the work, or if it was a time limited project, what will the lasting legacy be? Any plans to share your experiences more widely. Anything else you would like to share To reduce the administrative burden, if you have prepared a similar report for other funders, we are happy to receive a copy of this. Final report (grants awarded before 1 November 2023) A brief report summarising the activity that has taken place as a result of the grant, and the impact it has had. The number of people impacted by the grant. A couple of photos that encapsulate your grant if possible. To reduce the administrative burden, if you have prepared a report for other funders, we are happy to receive a copy of this. Grant report forms Choose the form you need from the three options below. Progress report For a multi-year grant you will need to submit a brief progress report at the end of each year Final report (grants awarded after 1 November 2023) If your grant was awarded after 1 November 2023 you will need to complete this form Final report (grants awarded before 1 November 2023) If your grant was awarded anytime before 1 November 2023 you will need to complete this form