Search our site by keyword Enter your search term here… FAQs Grant programmes Eligibility How to apply Indices of Multiple Deprivation Grant awards Grant reports Re-applying to PHF Grant programmes Can I apply for a grant? Our Active Lives and Positive Futures grant programmes are closed to applications. You can find out more here . If you are looking for a small grant and are based in Surrey you may be able to apply to the Peter Harrison Foundation Community Fund which is managed by the Community Foundation for Surrey. Find out more here How do I apply to the Peter Harrison Foundation Community Fund? Find out how to apply here When will grant programmes re-open to applications? The grant programmes will remain closed for the foreseeable future. The Foundation only accepts applications from organisations that it has invited to apply for support. How do I apply for a Trustees’ discretionary grant? We do not accept applications for these grants. The Trustees use these funds to support projects that are of particular interest to them, and which fall outside our open grant programmes. How to apply I have submitted an application – how can I access the form that I submitted? If you need to access an application form that you have already submitted you can use this portal . Please note this is read only , and you cannot make changes to your form once it has been submitted . I have submitted an application – when will I find out if I have been successful? All applications submitted by the 1 April 2025 deadline are currently being assessed. You will be notified of the outcome of your application by 31 July 2025. Do you give feedback on unsuccessful applications? We are a very small team and it is not feasible for us to give individual feedback to all applicants. The main reason for not funding projects is that we receive many more applications than we can support. You can find out more about our grantmaking, including the number of applications, number of grants awarded and grant funds available, on each of the grant programme pages. We regret that we have to turn down many good proposals, even though they may meet our criteria. You can find more information about how we prioritise applications on the grant programme pages. Active Lives Positive Futures How long will it take to find out if my application has been successful? We will notify you of the outcome of your application within four months of the application deadline. You can see our application deadlines and decision dates below: Application deadline Decision 1 January 30 April 1 April 31 July 1 July 31 October 1 October 31 January I have been asked to submit additional information – how do I do this? If you are applying for a major grant, you may be invited to submit additional information. Please note, this is by request only, and PHF will contact you by email to provide details of how to log back into the application portal. Grant awards Can we use the PHF logo when publicising our grant? Yes, you can download the PHF logo and our brand guidelines on the Publicising our grant page . Please ensure you read the guidelines carefully before using the logo. What are the terms and conditions of your grants? You can see our standard terms and conditions here . Some grants will have additional conditions applied and these will be detailed in your grant offer letter. When will we be paid? The majority of grants are paid as soon as we receive your signed grant offer letter. Some grants will have extra conditions attached, for example planning permission approval for capital projects, or a minimum amount of match funding secured from other funders. These will be detailed in your grant offer letter, and funds will be released upon written confirmation that all conditions have been met. How will my grant be paid? All payments are made by bank transfer, and we use the Confirmation of Payee service to verify the identity of recipients. How do I accept my grant offer? Your grant offer letter needs to be signed by two of your trustees or senior members of staff and then returned to us within 2 months to accept your grant offer. You will be asked to log into the application portal and upload your signed grant offer letter and your organisation’s bank details. Once these are received, we will process your grant payment. What happens if my application is successful? You will be sent an email notification of your grant award, followed by a grant offer letter (also by email). This grant offer letter needs to be signed by two of your trustees or senior members of staff and returned to us within 2 months. Grant reports What information do we need to include in our report? You can find full details on what information is required for progress reports and final reports on our Information for grantees page. Is there a grant report form or template that we need to use? Yes. We will send you an email with a link to the form when your report is due. If you would like to submit your report earlier you can find the forms on the Submit your grant report page. When do we need to submit a grant report? You will need to submit a brief report at the end of each year of your grant, and you will be sent an email reminder including a link directly to the grant report form. You will then have two months to submit your report. We can be flexible about reporting dates, so if this doesn’t fit with your project timescales then please get in touch to discuss a more appropriate schedule . You can find out more on the Information for grantees page.