Grants for Individuals We currently have five funds that award grants to individuals. We recommend you read through each fund’s guidance notes before applying. Fund description Supporting disadvantaged young people to gain access to training and employment. We advise you have a look at the Surrey Young People’s Fund webpage , before submitting an Expression of Interest Form . Fund description Supporting disadvantaged young people to gain access to training and employment. We advise you have a look at the Surrey Young People’s Fund webpage , before submitting an Expression of Interest Form . Fund Description The Guildford Young Carers Fund was set up by Mike Parsons during his year as mayor in 2018/19 and is part of Guildford Philanthropy. The Fund awards grants to support young carers in the Borough of Guildford. Grants of up to £400 will support young carers by providing services or equipment that will help them with their educational, emotional and social needs. Fund Description The Guildford Young Carers Fund was set up by Mike Parsons during his year as mayor in 2018/19 and is part of Guildford Philanthropy. The Fund awards grants to support young carers in the Borough of Guildford. Grants of up to £400 will support young carers by providing services or equipment that will help them with their educational, emotional and social needs. Fund Description The Carers Support (Guildford) Fund is part of Guildford Philanthropy , and makes small grants to carers who live in the borough of Guildford who are in need in order to provide them with a respite from their caring role. Fund Description The Carers Support (Guildford) Fund is part of Guildford Philanthropy , and makes small grants to carers who live in the borough of Guildford who are in need in order to provide them with a respite from their caring role. Fund Description The Surrey Supported Employment Fund supports people with disabilities or mental ill health to overcome barriers to work, contributing towards the social and economic well-being of our area. Fund Description The Surrey Supported Employment Fund supports people with disabilities or mental ill health to overcome barriers to work, contributing towards the social and economic well-being of our area. Fund Description The David Tyson Memorial Fund was established in 2017 to support young people pursuing careers in rail engineering and related engineering disciplines. Fund Description The David Tyson Memorial Fund was established in 2017 to support young people pursuing careers in rail engineering and related engineering disciplines. Still have questions? Looking for Group Applications? Sign up to our Grants Newsletter Stay up to date with our latest news and updates on grants.