Working to make Surrey a fairer and stronger community. Discover what we do We understand that giving money well – to ensure that every penny makes the best possible impact to our local communities – is hard work. Find out more about our imp act We are committed to making open and trusting grant-making; ensuring easy applications in a single initial form, regardless of where funding may be from. Find out more here We match volunteers with business skills to grassroots charities and community organisations in need of help with short-term skills projects via our Funder Plus scheme. Volunteer In Surrey Working with the Community Foundation for Surrey No matter the financial or time commitment you are considering, we can work together with you to find a solution that will satisfy your philanthropic requirements. There are a range of ways to work with us – setting up your own individual, family or in-memoriam fund, or joining in with other Donors to support a pooled fund supporting a particular area or theme. We also offer corporate funds for those wishing to give through their business. For each of our funds, our team works tirelessly to: Find those in greatest need in our county Find those in greatest need in our county Identify the best organisations providing the most help to our communities Identify the best organisations providing the most help to our communities Check that they’re excellently run in financial and governance terms Check that they’re excellently run in financial and governance terms Provide shortlists to our Donors that match their funding aims Provide shortlists to our Donors that match their funding aims Our grants process We support local charities, and community and voluntary groups in Surrey whose work benefits our communities. We welcome applications from both new and established groups and also have several funds that award grants to support individuals. The grant funding we award is made possible by local Donors, spread across 85+ funds . When considering your application, we will match it with the criteria of our various funds, which cover across the county. Grants for groups Send us an Expression of Interest (EOI) Tell us what you want to do and how much you would like to apply for. Our Grants Team will review your EOI against our funds’ criteria and will advise you if we can invite a full application. We will send you the application form at least a month before the deadline. Apply here. Send us an Expression of Interest (EOI) Tell us what you want to do and how much you would like to apply for. Our Grants Team will review your EOI against our funds’ criteria and will advise you if we can invite a full application. We will send you the application form at least a month before the deadline. Apply here. Complete the online application form Complete the online application form and attach your supporting documents. Ensure these is submitted by the deadline. Complete the online application form Complete the online application form and attach your supporting documents. Ensure these is submitted by the deadline. Wait to hear Once we have received your full online application and supporting documents we will process your application. Our Grants Team will complete due diligence checks and review the content of the application. Applications will then be shared with our Fund-holders who will make the final decision. Your application may be considered by several of our funds. We will notify you of the funding outcome by the date provided for the round, typically within 3 months of the full application being submitted. Wait to hear Once we have received your full online application and supporting documents we will process your application. Our Grants Team will complete due diligence checks and review the content of the application. Applications will then be shared with our Fund-holders who will make the final decision. Your application may be considered by several of our funds. We will notify you of the funding outcome by the date provided for the round, typically within 3 months of the full application being submitted. Report back on your project If you receive a grant we will ask you to send us an End of Grant report. This report not only shows that you completed your project but helps us tell the world how you are improving our community. Report back on your project If you receive a grant we will ask you to send us an End of Grant report. This report not only shows that you completed your project but helps us tell the world how you are improving our community. “No one is as effective at linking Donors with charitable organisations and ensuring that our support is used to the best effect.” — Nigel & Alison, Dancer Fund “ For a relatively small amount of money, a significant difference is made to people’s lives. The return on the investment made was much better than any investment I made during my business career.”