Give to your Surrey community We understand that giving to your community is a very individual decision. There are many different reasons why people and businesses choose to support charitable causes. For some, giving to the Surrey community could be a result of their own life experiences, for others it may be a sense of duty to give something back. At the Community Foundation for Surrey, we harness our expertise in philanthropy and grant making to maximise our impact within the Surrey community. Through our deep understanding of local needs and challenges, we strategically allocate resources to initiatives and projects that have the most impact. By collaborating with donors, charitable organisations, and community stakeholders, we ensure that our efforts are targeted, sustainable, and effectively address the diverse needs of Surrey residents. Together, we work towards building a stronger, more vibrant Surrey for all. Make a donation. Donations can be made at any level, either as one-off donations or spread over a period of time. They can be donated as gifts of cash, legacies, shares, property or land. The easiest way to give is via the button to donate, which will direct you straight to our online giving page. If you would prefer to make a bank transfer, ensuring a fee free gift, please contact us. Don’t forget Gift Aid! Using Gift Aid means that for every pound you give, CFSurrey will receive an extra 25p from HM Revenue & Customs, helping your donation go further. Gift Aid can be taken via our online giving page or use the button below if you will be sending your donation via bank transfer or cheque. Become a Friend of Surrey Monthly donation from £2 You're in control of how much you give, becoming a Friend and making an impact in Surrey starts from as little as £2. Monthly donation from £2 You're in control of how much you give, becoming a Friend and making an impact in Surrey starts from as little as £2. Membership Pack You’ll receive a pack including: Introduction to the Community Foundation for Surrey, our latest Impact Report about the issues facing disadvantaged people in our county, email bulletins and funding literature. Membership Pack You’ll receive a pack including: Introduction to the Community Foundation for Surrey, our latest Impact Report about the issues facing disadvantaged people in our county, email bulletins and funding literature. Event Invitation We would love to welcome you to our exclusive annual “Friend” event. Event Invitation We would love to welcome you to our exclusive annual “Friend” event. Regular Updates We will send you quarterly updates after each grants round with updates on where your donation has made an impact. Regular Updates We will send you quarterly updates after each grants round with updates on where your donation has made an impact. For more information on how to become a Friend, contact our Development Managers, Zoe Coltart or Amy Lee at giving@cfsurrey.org.uk or by calling us on 01483 478092. We are local We guarantee that your funds will be used to support the local community in which you live and work. You can visit projects you fund and see for yourself the positive impact being made. We guarantee that your funds will be used to support the local community in which you live and work. You can visit projects you fund and see for yourself the positive impact being made. We make giving easy We invite applications from within the community, carry out excellent due diligence, arrange for grant payments to be made and carry out end of grant reporting on your behalf. Our team of experts mean that you can focus on the joy of giving. We invite applications from within the community, carry out excellent due diligence, arrange for grant payments to be made and carry out end of grant reporting on your behalf. Our team of experts mean that you can focus on the joy of giving. We are knowledgable We have unrivalled knowledge and expertise around local community needs and provide expert advice and support in grant giving. We have unrivalled knowledge and expertise around local community needs and provide expert advice and support in grant giving. We are here to stay We’re building endowment funds to enable us to give to local communities forever. We’re building endowment funds to enable us to give to local communities forever. Why you should give to your local Surrey community through us: Other ways you can help us… You can support us by using easyfundraising when you shop online. Much like cashback sites you might have heard of, easyfundraising works because brands pay a commission when you start your purchase from the portal, and easyfundraising pass that on as a donation to the charity of your choice ( Community Foundation for Surrey! ). If you are an organisation, you can also sign up using the registration link below and we will receive a 20% bonus on amounts raised at no detriment to you! “To be able to give and enable other people to enjoy the things I have been privileged to enjoy is wonderful.” — Catenum Fund Donor “To be able to give and enable other people to enjoy the things I have been privileged to enjoy is wonderful.” — Catenum Fund Donor Sign up to our Newsletter Stay up to date with our latest news and updates.