Our process We support local charities, and community and voluntary groups in Surrey whose work benefits our communities. The grant funding we award is made possible by local Fund-holders, spread across 85+ funds . When considering your application, we will match it with the criteria our various funds have set across the county. How it works Check you're eligible You can check our eligibility criteria here. Check you're eligible You can check our eligibility criteria here. Check the deadlines The deadlines for all of our programmes can be found here Check the deadlines The deadlines for all of our programmes can be found here Send us an Expression of Interest (EOI) Tell us what you want to do and how much you would like to apply for. Our Grants Team will review your EOI against our funds’ criteria and will advise you if we can invite a full application. We will send you the application form at least a month before the deadline. Apply here. Send us an Expression of Interest (EOI) Tell us what you want to do and how much you would like to apply for. Our Grants Team will review your EOI against our funds’ criteria and will advise you if we can invite a full application. We will send you the application form at least a month before the deadline. Apply here. Complete the online application form Complete the online application form and attach your supporting documents. Please ensure these are submitted by the deadline. Complete the online application form Complete the online application form and attach your supporting documents. Please ensure these are submitted by the deadline. Wait to hear Once we have received your full online application and supporting documents we will process your application. Our Grants Team will complete due diligence checks and review the content of the application. Applications will then be shared with our Fund-holders who will make the final decision. Your application may be considered by several of our funds. We will notify you of the funding outcome by the date provided for the round, typically within 3 months of the full application being submitted. Wait to hear Once we have received your full online application and supporting documents we will process your application. Our Grants Team will complete due diligence checks and review the content of the application. Applications will then be shared with our Fund-holders who will make the final decision. Your application may be considered by several of our funds. We will notify you of the funding outcome by the date provided for the round, typically within 3 months of the full application being submitted. Report back on your project If you receive a grant we will ask you to send us an End of Grant report. This report not only shows that you completed your project but helps us tell the world how you are improving our community. Report back on your project If you receive a grant we will ask you to send us an End of Grant report. This report not only shows that you completed your project but helps us tell the world how you are improving our community. Meet with the team Q&A sessions Our Q&A sessions are 30-60 minute meetings held online, that give you the opportunity to hear a bit about CFSurrey and ask any questions about applying to us. To book a place, please click on the date that you’re interested in to open an email with the details prefilled in the subject*. Please send this email to us with your full name and the organisation you will be representing. *Please note the email links below will only work if you have a default email application set up on the device you are using. Otherwise, send an email to grants@cfsurrey.org.uk . General Q&A sessions Our general Q&A sessions are an opportunity for you to talk in a group setting with one of our Grants Team and ask questions about how to apply for funding, necessary eligibility, what supporting documents we require and other processes regarding CFSurrey. Here are the dates for our next batch of General Q&A Sessions: 12:30pm on Thursday 20th November 12:30pm on Thursday 20th November 10:30am on Tuesday 2nd December 10:30am on Tuesday 2nd December 2pm on Wednesday 7th January 2026 2pm on Wednesday 7th January 2026 Mental Health Scale-Up Fund Q&A sessions Our Mental Health Scale Up-Fund Q&A sessions are an opportunity for you to talk in a group setting with one of our dedicated Team members and ask questions about the purpose of the Fund, how to apply for funding, necessary eligibility and other processes regarding CFSurrey. We will be holding more Q&A sessions in the future, when the EOIs for Round 6 are open. Round 6 will focus on scale-up of Mental Health interventions supporting whole family support for Children & Young People up to 30 years of age with anxiety. Surrey Local Government Reorganisation We were asked by Surrey County Council to host a Webinar in which they explained the planned local Government reorganisation (LGR) and listened to any concerns or questions from voluntary and community organisations. Nicola Kilvington, Director of Corporate Strategy and Policy at Surrey County Council hosted the session, shared the latest updates, heard your views and answered your questions. Thank you for all those who joined us. Heritage for All Q&A sessions As the EOI stage of Round 2 has now closed, we will not be holding any further Q&A sessions for the Heritage for All Programme. Strategic Q&A sessions Our Strategic Q&A sessions are an opportunity for you to talk in a group setting with one of our Strategic Team members and ask questions about what it is we are looking for, what do we mean by ‘strategic;' , necessary eligibility, and other processes regarding CFSurrey. Here are the next dates for our Strategic Q&A sessions: 12:30pm on Wednesday 12th November 12:30pm on Wednesday 12th November Want to know our deadlines? Find our deadlines for our Main Grants round, and all other rounds Our other grant programmes Looking for Grants for Individuals? Read our Help and FAQs Sign up to our Grants Newsletter Stay up to date with our latest news and updates on grants.