If you’re ready for a partnership that promises growth in footfall and profits, we’ve got you covered. With 2,400 Co-op products across all categories including core convenience essentials, the premium Co-op Irresistible range and the new GRO vegan range, increased foot traffic to your store is guaranteed. Plus, the Co-op range has over 200 product award wins as well as a dedicated food development team, so you’ll have access to a trusted, recognisable and innovative own-brand proposition. We have a market leading logistics network so you can have the products you need, when you need them, to meet the demand of shoppers. Joining Co-op Wholesale allows you to unlock up to 5.% rebate with our market-leading scheme, Fresh Rewards . A model built on simplicity and fairness, you can earn higher rebates, allowing you to drive your business forward. We are committed to delivering competitive prices so retailers can increase their profits and drive business growth. We’ve invested in lowering the wholesale prices of thousands of branded products across the most important categories for our retailers. Our unbeatable fresh proposition has successfully doubled store turnover for our existing retailers. Look no further for a best in market offering that will keep shoppers coming back to your store. We value your independence, and we support you whether you want to trade under a Co-op Wholesale fascia or your own brand. We pride ourselves on a tailored approach to help you run your business the way you want to. Revolutionise your day to day operations with a state of the art EPoS system. The Epositive Evolution has been enhanced to offer a faster, more efficient system that’s incredibly user-friendly. We’ve made significant improvements to optimise the performance between the back office and the tills, ensuring seamless operations. Our team of retail experts is dedicated to understanding your business and providing you with the latest insights, innovative ideas, and fresh perspectives to help your business thrive. With unparalleled support from a team of industry specialists, including store development managers and regional retail managers, we'll develop the best fit for the location and their shoppers, and together, will evolve concepts to suit the needs of each business. Our commitment to supporting communities remains unwavering. Through our Making a Difference Locally charity, we will support you to strengthen the local communities you serve, and we remain committed to campaigning on the issues that matter to you.