Education & Awards The Tallow Chandlers’ Company supports schools, including three flagship London schools, further and higher educational establishments, charities and organisations linked by trade with donations, bursaries, scholarships and awards. Award recipients attend an annual lunch in recognition of their achievements, and, as they move to Past Award Winner status, the link with the Company is maintained at the annual Past Award Winners' Supper. Our Flagships We support three London flagship schools each of which receive annual donations and are also supported by a programme of non-financial giving. Our non-financial support enables a wide range of educational activities such as mentoring, mock interviews, a ‘dragons’ den’ science competition, and various careers activities. We provide support to governance with members of the Company in the role of associate governor at each flagship school. Greig City Academy, Haringey The Company first began supporting Grieg City Academy in 2013. A mixed, non-selective secondary school for pupils aged 11 to 18 with approximately 1000 pupils on roll, including Sixth Formers. Two Tallow Chandlers’ Company members sit on the school’s Board. The Company supported the creation of a bespoke STEM centre which is used for robotics, coding and electric car racing, and Primary school outreach, and school teams have successfully competed in the annual VEX World Robotics Championships in Dallas, USA. The school also has a thriving Sailing Club, with teams competing in the ASTO race, the Etchells Worlds Cowes and the Round the Island Race. To find out more about the school, please visit their website . The Company supports pupils both inside and outside the school gates, by supporting relevant charities and youth organisations, examples of which include The Smallpeice Trust Arkwright Engineering Scholarship, Lord Mayor & Liveries Future Professionals Summer School, and Voyage. Leigh Academy Halley, Greenwich Leigh Academy Halley, supported by the Company since 2016, is a mixed secondary school for c1000 pupils aged 11 to 19, and is part of the Leigh Academies Trust. Tallow Chandler members sit on the Governing Board and the Trust’s Board. The school opened a new (Tallow Chandlers') Engineering and Design Centre in 2022, which inspires students to achieve their potential in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. To find out more about the school, please visit their website . The Company supports pupils both inside and outside the school gates, examples of which include Platform Cricket Project, City & Guilds, and The Children's Literacy Charity. Cubitt Town Primary School, Tower Hamlets Supported since 2017, Cubitt Town Junior School and Infant School merged in 2022 to create Cubitt Town Primary School, a mixed community school for 700 pupils aged 3 to 11. Two Company members sit on the school’s Board. The school guides pupils with its strong vision and set of values, and offers a wide range of activities and experiences, from running The Daily Mile on its own running track, to poetry and science competitions, trips and outings in and around London (including to the Tallow Chandlers’ Hall), and VIP visits. For more information on the school, please visit their website . The Company supports pupils both inside and outside the school gates examples of which include London Symphony Orchestra, Open City, The Children’s Literacy Charity, Adopt A School (Royal Academy of Culinary Arts) and Reed’s School’s Launch Car Challenge. Donations, Bursaries and Awards The Tallow Chandlers' Company supports a number of schools, universities and organisations, and recognises achievements in areas related to our trade (oils, fats and energy) and in the study of STEM (science, technology, engineering and maths) through Tallow Chandlers' Awards. Use the arrows below to find out who we currently support with an award. Schools, Universities and Organisations City of London School City of London School for Girls Guildhall School of Music and Drama Reed’s School St Paul’s Cathedral Chorister School Selwyn College Cambridge Sir William Perkins's School University of East London (School of Health, Sport and Bioscience) University of Manchester (School of Chemical Engineering & Analytical Science) Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry, including bursaries funded by the Anya Sturdy Charitable Trust City & Guilds Health and Social Care Award First Aid Nursing Yeomanry London's Air Ambulance Snow Camp Awards Related to Trade Those supported by Tallow Chandlers' Awards include FOSFA International course participants (The Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Association) UNRU Manchester Best Senior Student Award 206 Squadron RAF Flight Test Award bp Technologists and Apprentices Back to the Top