Grants Grants data Our grant data is published in real time on 360 Giving . Open grant programmes Holiday activity schemes for autistic children and young people This programme runs once a year and provides grants up to around £15,000 for holiday play and activity schemes for autistic children and young people. Find out about grants for holiday activity schemes Access to justice for disabled people This programme runs every two year and provides grants to projects providing better access to free legal advice and advocacy for Disabled or neurodivergent people on benefits, debt, housing, homelessness, community care, personal liberty, and equal access to goods and services. Find out about grants for access to justice for Disabled or neurodivergent people Research-led grants programmes We make a small number of other grants each year and support organisations long-term. We find projects to support through our own research and the recommendations of people active in our fields of interest who share our values. Autism We fund a small number of practical projects that support the autonomy, liberty and human rights of autistic and neurodivergent people. We prefer projects that include autistic and neurodivergent people in their leadership, decision-making and delivery. This includes self-management, peer support, social skills projects, and family support. Disability, violence and access to justice We support a small portfolio of projects working on Disabled people’s civic rights. We also support a small number of organisations responding to violence against autistic, neurodivergent and Disabled people. We expect to add to this portfolio, using careful research and dialogue with Disabled people. Human rights We support a small portfolio of projects working on trans and non-binary people’s civil rights and personal safety. All of these projects are selected following consultation with trans and non-binary people for work that meets their priorities. Living Wage We only funds projects that pay the Living Wage or better for all its workers. What we don’t do Capital projects Pure research Anything to do with a “cure” for autism Anyone who provides residential care, even if the request is not for this. We count personal care in people’s own homes and camps or residential trips as residential care. Anyone using Applied Behavioural Analysis or other coercive and contested methods of behavioural control Apps, web-based platforms and software development Schools and colleges Educational fees SEND advice and advocacy Expeditions Direct grants to individuals Projects outside the UK Monitoring and reporting We usually ask people we fund for a single report each year. We also ask people to fill in an equalities monitoring form each year. For holiday activity schemes and access to justice grants, we will email you a report form pre-filled with grant information. Blank copies of equalities monitoring and grant report forms are available on the downloads page . Last updated: 9 September 2025.