Three Guineas is a grantmaking trust that funds work to support the autonomy, safety and civil rights of autistic, neurodivergent, Disabled, trans and non-binary people. Our values About us Grant programmes Policies Get in touch Holiday activity schemes for autistic children and young people – 2025 round The 2025 round is now closed – the next round of funding will be available in 2026 This scheme provides grants of up to £15,000 to activity schemes for autistic children and young people, and their siblings, which run in the school holidays. Grants are usually for part of the costs. Find out about grants for holiday activity schemes What we expect on safeguarding Access to justice for Disabled people – 2025 round This funding round closed to expressions of interest at 12.00 noon 5 June 2025. The deadline for applications is 6.00pm 12 June 2025. Grant decisions will be released in the week of 6 October 2025. This programme aims to increase access for Disabled or neurodivergent people to advice and advocacy on benefits and debt, housing and homelessness, community care, personal liberty and equal access to goods and services. Applications will be shortlisted, assessed and recommended for a grant by a panel of 11 people who are Disabled or neurodivergent, or who have lived experience of disability and learned experience of legal advice. Find out about grants for access to justice for Disabled people Grant reports and equalities monitoring forms – download from this page Trans people’s civil rights and personal safety We believe that the Supreme Court ruling on interpretation of the Equality Act 2010 adversely impacts trans and non-binary people profoundly, immediately and directly. It also engenders an environment that permits people and institutions to police other people’s self-presentation. We are open to suggestions on how best to support trans people’s civil rights and personal safety. If you want to discuss this with us please get in touch . Disability Rights UK tackles hate crime against Disabled people. Photo: Disability Rights UK