If you are a UK taxpayer, you can boost your donation by 25p for every £1 you donate at no additional cost to you. To allow us to claim Gift Aid from the tax you pay for the current tax year, please complete and submit the following form. Gift Aid declaration Please notify Cambridgeshire Community Foundation if you: want to cancel this declaration change your name or home address no longer pay sufficient tax on your income and/or capital gains For information about the data we collect and how we manage it, please refer to the privacy notice . FAQs Am I eligible for Gift Aid? To be eligible, you have to be a UK taxpayer, paying tax on your salary, savings, investments, pensions or capital gains. All of these qualify, as long as the total tax you pay is at least equal to the amount we, and other charities you donate to, can reclaim on your donations. How much more will my donation be worth? For every donation, we can claim an additional 25% through Gift Aid from the government. For example, if you donate £10, we can claim an extra £2.50 from the Government, at no extra cost to you. Are there any hidden charges? Gift Aid is taken from tax you have already paid. However, if you pay less income tax and/or capital gains tax than the amount of Gift Aid claimed on your donations in the tax year, it is your responsibility to pay any difference. Are all donations eligible for Gift Aid? No. Under UK law, certain donations are not eligible for Gift Aid. If your donation falls into any of the following categories, Gift Aid should not be claimed: Donations made by anyone who is not a UK taxpayer. Donations made on behalf of someone else or a group of people. For example, if you arrange a collection, you cannot claim Gift Aid on the bulk donation. Even if the people who contributed to the collection are all UK taxpayers, HMRC would need a Gift Aid declaration from each of the donors. If you are planning to arrange such a collection, please get in touch and we can provide you a suitable form. Donations made in return for something . For example, if you are making a donation in return for a raffle ticket, then it is not eligible for Gift Aid. Donations made on behalf of a company (Note: the company may be able to claim tax relief on the donation when donating directly to the charity). Do I need to submit a declaration for each donation? No. Once you’ve completed and submitted the form above, you will not have to do it again for Cambridgeshire Community Foundation. However, you should inform us if your tax status changes. Please email finance@cambscf.org.uk Can I support multiple charities through Gift Aid? You can Gift Aid your donations to multiple charities. Complete the Gift Aid declaration for each charity you wish to support through Gift Aid and ensure that you pay enough tax to cover the amount claimed by each charity. If I pay Income Tax at the higher or additional rate and want to receive the additional tax relief due to me, what should I do? You must include all your Gift Aid donations on your Self-Assessment tax return or ask HM Revenue and Customs to adjust your tax code. What should I do if my tax status or personal details change? Changes to your tax status, name, address or dropping below the taxable threshold can prevent us from claiming Gift Aid on your behalf. If you’d like to update your details, please email finance@cambscf.org.uk We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. We also use ad tracking tags from LinkedIn. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.