We’re excited to announce that we’re making important updates to our grant application system. What’s improving? We’re implementing these changes based on your feedback, as part of our ongoing commitment to ensuring our grant-making works better for you. Expect improvements that will make the application process smoother, faster and more user-friendly. How grant applicants will be affected During this time, our team will be working hard to recreate our programmes, forms and processes in the new system. Therefore, our response times may be slower than usual, and we’d like to thank you in advance for your patience. Given our team’s limited capacity during this time, a reduced number of our funds will be opened for applications during our Winter Round (1 November deadline). We will also need to adjust our usual application timelines. These changes are detailed below. Applications submitted for the 1 August deadline will experience delays Every effort will be made to process them as quickly as possible, however, outcomes could be shared as late as February. If you have submitted an application for a project with a timeline that would be affected by a delayed decision, please get in touch. We will be able to discuss potential solutions with you. Limited funding opportunities open for the Winter Round (1 November deadline) The following funds will continue accepting applications as normal: Thalia WB Community Fund (1 September deadline) Stay Well (rolling applications) Cambridge Street Aid (rolling applications) Only a limited number of our funds with a usual 1 November application deadline will be accepting applications. The funds are as follows: Cambridge Building Society Community Fund Tees Better Future Fund S2 Partnership Community Fund Outlook Fund The online application forms will be accessible via the fund pages from October. While you wait for us to re-open applications to these funds, you can work on your responses to the application questions using our guide document . You can then copy and paste your answers into the new online forms when they become available in October to submit for the 1 November (11:59am) deadline. Applications received for the reduced number of funds for the Winter Round (1 November deadline) should expect a delay in receiving outcomes. We would normally expect to communicate the outcomes of funding applications for this round by the end of February, but applicants should prepare to receive outcomes by May. You can submit grant reporting as normal If you received a grant offer letter before the end of July 2025, it contained links to your online monitoring report. Please rest assured that your interim and/or end of project reporting will not be affected. Please follow the links in your grant offer letter to submit your interim and/or end of project monitoring as normal. Grantees who are due to submit monitoring during this transition period will also be emailed directly with further guidance. You can sign grant offer letters as normal If you receive a grant offer letter, please follow the instructions in the accompanying emails to digitally sign the letter via CongaSign as usual. Thank you for your patience and understanding While we’re working hard to transition to our new application system as quickly as possible, there may be unexpected delays and issues along the way. We will update this notice accordingly and share important updates via social media. Our partners at Support Cambridgeshire (formerly CCVS and Hunts Forum) and PCVS will also be kept updated on the changes to our grant application system and how they are affecting applications. They will be able to offer advice accordingly, should you seek their support. If you have any questions, please contact us by emailing info@cambscf.org.uk or call 01223 410535 . Thank you for your patience as we work to improve your grant application experience. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. We also use ad tracking tags from LinkedIn. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.