What is the lottery? A fun and effective way for local charities and community organisations to fundraise and engage with supporters. The lottery enables people to support the causes they care about while having the chance to win something in return. A ticket costs just £1 a week. 50p from every ticket will support the player’s chosen charity and another 10p will support other good causes across the county. Players have a 1 in 50 chance of winning a prize each week, with a top prize of £25,000. Charities, community groups, sports clubs, CICs and schools, among other good causes, can all apply to be a part of the lottery, and every ticket sold will help to boost causes across the county. Why become one of the lottery’s good causes? Registering as one of the lottery’s good cause is a great way to raise additional funds. It’s easy to set up and there’s no catch! Find out more by watching our launch webinar video hosted by the Foundation’s CEO, Michael O’Toole, alongside Carol O’Neill, representing our lottery partner, Gatherwell. Free to join – no setup fees No risk – no minimum ticket sales required Easy fundraising – receive 50p from every £1 ticket purchased by your supporter Wider community benefit – another 10p from each ticket supports the wider community through the Foundation Simple setup – dedicated lottery page and marketing materials provided Automated administration – we handle all the prize management and payments Regular income – monthly payments directly to your bank account Proven success – similar models have raised thousands for local causes across the UK Please note that causes need to meet eligibility criteria and may need to provide documents as proof of this in order to be accepted. If your organisation has not previously applied for a grant from the Foundation, your application may take longer to process. See the Lottery T&Cs for more detail. As a small charity, it’s vital to give people different ways to support us. This is a great way to combine supporting Sew Positive, Cambridgeshire Community Foundation, and have the opportunity to be a lottery winner! Find out more about joining the lottery Why play the lottery? Support good causes! 60% of your ticket purchase supports local charities and community organisations. From your £1 ticket, your chosen cause will get 50p and Cambridgeshire Community Foundation will receive 10p to support other causes across the county. Win great prizes! Cash prizes range from £25 to £25,000. The lottery offers a 1 in 50 chance of winning a prize, and a better chance of winning the jackpot than the National Lottery! Support your local community! Every good cause supported by the lottery will benefit Cambridgeshire and its residents. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. We also use ad tracking tags from LinkedIn. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.