Stay Well Up to £400 Application deadlines: Currently closed Grants of up to £400 awarded for vulnerable individuals and families living in Cambridgeshire facing fuel poverty. Grants are for future heating costs within the home. Learn more Stay Well Grants of up to £400 awarded for vulnerable individuals and families living in Cambridgeshire facing fuel poverty. Grants are for future heating costs within the home. Lovewell Blake Fund Up to £2,000 Application deadlines: Currently closed Grants up to £2,000 to support social need in and around Ely, East Cambridgeshire. Learn more Lovewell Blake Fund Grants up to £2,000 to support social need in and around Ely, East Cambridgeshire. Warwick and Dominey Fund No maximum grant value, but a £4,000 average grant size Application deadlines: 1 February, 1 August Grants averaging £4,000 for projects which advance education and/or seek to tackle social disadvantages. Learn more Warwick and Dominey Fund Grants averaging £4,000 for projects which advance education and/or seek to tackle social disadvantages. Dementia Carers Fund Up to £3,000 Application deadlines: 1 February, 1 May, 1 August Grants of up to £3,000 for projects that support full-time unpaid carers who are caring for a loved one with dementia. Learn more Dementia Carers Fund Grants of up to £3,000 for projects that support full-time unpaid carers who are caring for a loved one with dementia. Co-op Community Cares Fund Up to £5,000 Application deadlines: Currently closed Grants of up to £5,000 for projects supporting people to play an active part in our communities, reducing barriers and improving social contact. Learn more Co-op Community Cares Fund Grants of up to £5,000 for projects supporting people to play an active part in our communities, reducing barriers and improving social contact. Illumina Community Fund Up to £10,000 Application deadlines: Permanently closed Grants of up to £10,000 for projects benefitting individuals diagnosed with cancer and their loved ones across Cambridgeshire. Learn more Illumina Community Fund Grants of up to £10,000 for projects benefitting individuals diagnosed with cancer and their loved ones across Cambridgeshire. Burwell and Reach Community Fund Up to £2,000 Application deadlines: 1 February Grants of up to £2,000 for projects benefitting residents of Burwell and Reach. Learn more Burwell and Reach Community Fund Grants of up to £2,000 for projects benefitting residents of Burwell and Reach. Cambridge In Need Up to £20,000 in a single year or £30,000 over 3 years Application deadlines: 1 May Grants of a minimum of £5,000 up to a maximum of £20,000 in a single year (or up to £30,000 over 3 years) for organisations working in the City of Cambridge to reduce financial need, hardship or distress of people in need. Learn more Cambridge In Need Grants of a minimum of £5,000 up to a maximum of £20,000 in a single year (or up to £30,000 over 3 years) for organisations working in the City of Cambridge to reduce financial need, hardship or distress of people in need. Olive and Jesse Palmer Fund Up to £5,000 Application deadlines: 1 February, 1 May, 1 August The fund offers grants up to £5,000 to support organisations in Peterborough which are working to help local young people with learning disabilities to access positive activities and opportunities to develop their full potential. Learn more Olive and Jesse Palmer Fund The fund offers grants up to £5,000 to support organisations in Peterborough which are working to help local young people with learning disabilities to access positive activities and opportunities to develop their full potential. Diddington Community First Fund Up to £10,000 Application deadlines: Rolling The fund offers grants in the region of £10,000 to support projects benefitting the residents of Diddington. Learn more Diddington Community First Fund The fund offers grants in the region of £10,000 to support projects benefitting the residents of Diddington. The Denbury Charitable Fund – not accepting applications Up to £2,000 Application deadlines: Currently closed The fund offers grants of up to £2,000 for projects that address need in Cambridgeshire. Learn more The Denbury Charitable Fund – not accepting applications The fund offers grants of up to £2,000 for projects that address need in Cambridgeshire. John Stewart Memorial Fund Up to £6,000 Application deadlines: 1 February, 1 May, 1 August, 1 November Grants up to £6,000 for organisations supporting people who are disadvantaged or disabled to benefit from the pleasures of sport. Learn more John Stewart Memorial Fund Grants up to £6,000 for organisations supporting people who are disadvantaged or disabled to benefit from the pleasures of sport. Eligibility Criteria Individuals We only accept grant applications from referring organisations, made on behalf of individuals. Organisations To be an eligible organisation, you need to be either a registered, excepted, or exempt charity, CIC, CIO, not-for-profit community group/club, parish or town council, village hall, PCC, school, or social enterprise (with the Social Enterprise Mark). Your organisation must additionally fulfil the following requirements to be eligible for funding: If your income, before expenses, is over £5,000 per annum, you need to be registered with the Charity Commission or, if you are a sports club, either be registered as a Community Amateur Sports Club (CASC) or affiliated with a National Sporting Body e.g., the Football Association. You need to have a minimum of either three unrelated members on your management committee or three unrelated trustees. You need to supply a recent bank statement (within the last three months) or a paying in slip as proof of your organisation’s bank account into which a grant can be paid. You need to supply a signed copy of your organisation’s governing documents, which confirms that you are operating not-for-profit and must contain a dissolution clause that outlines that assets (after the satisfaction of debts/liabilities) will be distributed to charitable organisations with similar aims, should your organisation cease to operate. You need to supply a copy of your latest accounts or, if you are a new organisation, a balance sheet which keeps track of income and expenditure. You need to provide the most recent review dates for your current safeguarding policy (which contains a named safeguarding lead with contact details within it) and your current equality policy. If you are a registered charity or community interest company (CIC), your details with the relevant regulating body need to be up to date, and you must be able to provide a CIC 36 form or the latest CIC 34 annual report. For applications including capital equipment, you need to provide three different quotes for any item over £500. We do not offer funding for the following: Activities or projects which have already taken place (i.e., retrospective funding) Sponsored events, fundraising activities, or grant-making activities or bodies Improvements to land/buildings that are not open to the general public at convenient hours Projects promoting political activities or lobbying for causes The practice of religion or any projects that actively promote religion, particular belief systems, or indeed the lack of a belief. Such activities could exclude people from accessing a project based on religious grounds. Animal welfare projects Overseas travel Statutory obligations (i.e., activities that replace government funding) We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. We also use ad tracking tags from LinkedIn. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.