Privacy notice Cambridgeshire Community Foundation is committed to ensuring that your privacy is protected. Our privacy notice sets out how we use and protect any information that you give us. Cookie policy Our cookie policy explains what cookies are and how we use them, the types of cookies we use i.e. the information we collect using cookies and how that information is used, as well as how to control the cookie preferences. Data protection policy Cambridgeshire Community Foundation is committed to ensuring that your data is protected. Should we ask you to provide certain information by which you can be identified, you can rest assured that it will only be used in accordance with this policy. The Foundation may change this policy from time to time. You should occasionally check this page to ensure that you are happy with any changes. Complaints policy Cambridgeshire Community Foundation welcomes feedback regarding its work with donors, grant recipients, and the wider community. Feedback helps us to monitor and improve our approach, as the interests of all our stakeholders are important to the Foundation. If you wish to make a complaint, please view our complaints policy to find out how to make a complaint, what will happen when your complaint is received, as well as what to do if you are unsatisfied with the response. Grant-making policy Please view our grant-making policy to find out more about how we make grant awards. Disclaimer The content of this website is written and provided by employees of Cambridgeshire Community Foundation. Whilst every attempt is made to ensure the information is correct and up to date, this cannot be guaranteed. Please contact the Foundation if you have any concerns about the information displayed. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. We also use ad tracking tags from LinkedIn. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.