This privacy notice sets out how Cambridgeshire Community Foundation uses and protects any information that you give us. The Foundation is committed to ensuring that your privacy is protected. Should we ask you to provide certain information by which you can be identified, you can be assured that it will only be used in accordance with this privacy notice. The Foundation may change this policy from time to time by updating this page. You should occasionally check this page to ensure that you are happy with any changes. What we collect We may collect the following information: Name Job title Contact information, such as your email address, telephone number or home address Demographic information Your connections to other organisations (e.g. your employer) Details of your grant applications Records of your interactions with the Foundation, such as attendance at events Your preferences and interests Details of your donations What we do with the information we gather We will process your personal information for our legitimate business and charitable interests, which include some or all of the following: Internal record keeping Recording and processing of donations To claim Gift Aid on your donations To undertake statistical analysis To improve our communication and services To occasionally contact you about the work of the Foundation. You will always have the ability to decline future contact. To invite you to events hosted by the Foundation that we think may be of interest to you To assess your eligibility for a grant We may combine information you provide to us with information available from external sources, in order to gain a better understanding of our supporters and grant applicants, as well as to improve the services that we provide. The information that we obtain from other organisations may depend upon your privacy settings or responses you give, so you should check them regularly. This information will be obtained from places such as Companies House and articles published in the national and local press. Security We are committed to ensuring that your information is secure. Some of our suppliers run their operations outside the European Economic Area (EEA). Although they may not be subject to same data protection laws as companies based in the UK, we will take steps to make sure they provide an adequate level of protection in accordance with UK data protection law. By submitting your personal information to us, you agree to this transfer, storing or processing at a location outside the EEA. In order to prevent unauthorised access or disclosure, we have put in place suitable physical, electronic and managerial procedures to safeguard and secure the information we collect. Retention We will not retain your information for longer than is necessary. This will normally be for a maximum of six years after our relationship with you has ceased, although we are occasionally required to hold data for longer periods for specific grant programmes. Embedded content This website may include embedded content (e.g. YouTube videos). Embedded content from other websites behaves in the exact same way as if the visitor has visited the other website. These websites may collect data about you, use cookies, embed additional third-party tracking, and monitor your interaction with that embedded content, including tracking your interaction with the embedded content if you have an account and are logged in to that website. Links to other websites Our website may contain links to other websites of interest. However, once you have used these links to leave our site, you should note that we do not have any control over the other website. Therefore, we cannot be held responsible for the protection and privacy of any information which you provide whilst visiting such sites, and such sites are not governed by this privacy notice. Controlling your personal information You may choose to restrict or prevent use of your personal information in the following ways: Whenever you are asked to fill in a form, look for the boxes that you can click to indicate how you would like us to contact you. Electronic communications will contain an ‘unsubscribe’ link. You can ask us to remove you from our database at any time by emailing forgetme@cambscf.org.uk , by writing to us at the address below or calling us on 01223 410535 . We will not sell, distribute or lease your personal information to third parties, unless we have your permission or are required by law to do so. You may request details of personal information which we hold about you. A small fee may be payable. If you would like a copy of the information held about you, please write to: Cambridgeshire Community Foundation Hangar One The Airport Newmarket Road Cambridge CB5 8TG If you believe that any information we are holding on you is incorrect or incomplete, please email us or write to us at the above address, as soon as possible. We will promptly correct any information found to be incorrect. We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. We also use ad tracking tags from LinkedIn. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.