The Belron Ronnie Lubner Charitable Foundation Grantees Following a thorough application and review process the Belron Ronnie Lubner Charitable Foundation is supporting the below charitable organisations: Girls not Brides . A civil society partnership of 1400 member organisations in over 100 countries who are committed to working together to end child marriage and transform girls’ lives. Learn more about Girls not Brides here: Girls Not Brides Humans in the loop A hybrid social enterprise which provides employment opportunities and training opportunities to young adults who have been affected by conflict. Learn more about Humans in the Loop here: Humans in the Loop Joblinge A non-profit organisation working to integrate young people, particular those who have been displaced, into the German labour market and society. Learn more about Joblinge here: Joblinge Planning for Tomorrow (P4T) A community led organisation, set up by young refugees, providing quality education, health, livelihood and community service in Kyangwali camp in Western Uganda. Learn more about P4T here: Planning for Tomorrow . SmartStart An ambitious, social franchise in South Africa that is focused on ensuring one million children (from three to five years old) have access to quality early learning programmes by 2030. Learn more about SmartStart here: SmartStart Young Roots A UK charity that supports the well-being of young solo refugees and asylum seekers (11-25 years old), helping them to fulfill their potential through offering youth activities, one to one support and legal advice. Learn more about Young Roots here: Young Roots Tuyoor Al Amal A group of schools established by and for the Syrian refugee community living on the outskirts of Tripoli. The schools serve around 3,000 children from pre-school to Grade 12. Learn more about Tuyoor Al Amal here: Tuyoor Al Amal Gary Lubner, Chair of the Belron Ronnie Lubner Charitable Foundation, said “I am delighted that we have been able to support such inspiring and worthwhile organisations. Each one of them champions incredibly important causes and makes a real difference in the field in which they work. It is a real privilege for us to be able to support them. We are looking forward to working closely with them all and helping them to make a real difference to young people.” Giving back to communities across the world Everyone can make a difference