Grant Holders We're here to help Please call us now on 01727 853 991 or fill the form below. Information for grant holders This information is for those charities who have been awarded a grant from the Charles Hayward Foundation. Grant conditions and reporting requirements differ for our funding categories – please see the relevant category below. If you can’t find what you are looking for then please try the FAQ section or contact us . Older People Grant award letter & payment If your application is successful, you will be emailed a grant award letter stating the grant amount and the purpose of the grant (its restriction). The grant will be paid to you via bank transfer within a week of receiving the grant award letter. Requirements We require you to email a receipt (signed by the charity’s Chief Executive or Chair of Trustees) acknowledging the grant amount and date it was received. Reporting We do not require you to submit a report on the project. We trust that the grant will be spent as directed and it will help to further the work of your charity. Social & Criminal Justice, Overseas, and Heritage & Conservation Grant offer letter If your application is successful, you will be emailed a grant offer letter stating the grant amount and the purpose of the grant (its restriction). The grant will remain on offer for one year from the date of the letter, after which it will lapse. Should you be unable to claim the grant within this period you may apply for an extension in exceptional circumstances. Grant conditions The grant is restricted and may only be used for the purpose stated in the letter. The trustees reserve the right to withhold a grant or require repayment if: any false information is supplied to the Foundation deliberately; the work undertaken is not the work for which the grant was approved; the grantee becomes insolvent or goes into administration, receivership or liquidation; and if the grant has not been spent on its intended purpose. The grant offer is dependent on your organisation meeting its legal and regulatory requirements, including safeguarding. We also ask that you inform us if you have any safeguarding breaches or serious incidents over the duration of the grant period, which you have to disclose or report to the Regulator. Any major delays or changes to the project need to be communicated. We also ask you to tell us about any major organisational changes, including: financial or funding crises, changes to key members of staff, a potential merger. Requirements We require you to email us to confirm receipt of the grant offer letter and that you accept the grant conditions detailed in the letter. Once the grant has been paid, we require you to email a receipt (signed by the charity’s Chief Executive or Chair of Trustees) acknowledging the grant payment. Claiming your grant You must have emailed us to accept the grant conditions detailed in the grant offer letter. To claim your grant you will need to send us an email that includes confirmation of the following: The grant project is ready to be delivered as described in your grant application. That all project funding is in place. The charity’s bank details (account name, number and sort code). The Foundation pays grants at the end of each month. Payment requests must be submitted by the 20 th of the month, for payment the same month. The grant period will start at the beginning of the month immediately following payment. Reporting We require a report within a year of the grant payment. We don’t have a template/form for reporting, you can provide the report in any format but it should be no more than four A4 pages in length, and should include: Details of the project delivery during the year and the extent to which the objectives stated in your original application are being met. A summary of the outputs and outcomes for the project. Any key challenges and learnings. A project financial summary detailing expenditure against the original project budget. For multi-year grants, all second/third year grant instalments will only be paid on receipt of a satisfactory progress report. In addition to the report information above, you must also provide a project budget for the upcoming year, as well as confirmation of the charity’s bank details, acknowledging the grant amount and date it was received. If the charity’s bank account changes we will also require you to email us a recent bank statement.