Heritage & Conservation We're here to help Please call us now on 01727 853 991 or fill the form below. CURRENTLY CLOSED TO NEW APPLICATIONS Our Heritage & Conservation category is currently closed to new applications. There are no plans to re-open this category in the immediate future. Please refer to the website for any updates. UK registered charities that have an annual income over £350,000. We fund projects operating in the British Isles. We consider the quality of the projects more important than their geographical location. We fund projects of a unique nature and of national importance. We only fund projects in the following sub-categories: Conservation and preservation of pictures, manuscripts, books and objects for public display, use and interest. Development of libraries, museums and galleries. Adaptation of former Industrial Heritage sites to creative and educational spaces. In the Heritage & Conservation category, we do not fund: Community arts centres and programmes Conservation of gardens Environmental conservation & endangered species Animal rescue Art and history workshops Academic institutions Churches Opera, ballet and theatre; including artistic productions Heritage railways Building repairs Please also see our general funding exclusions . Our main focus in this category is on protecting, restoring and interpreting past inventions, discoveries, industrial sites and defining moments that have shaped our history and identity, and displaying them in a modern context for public engagement, use and learning. The trustees will fund a select number of projects with a one-off grant of up to £50,000. Please submit a proposal (no more than four A4 pages in length) by email to grants@charleshaywardfoundation.org.uk You must include the following information and attachments: Charity name, address, and registered charity number Contact details Your name and position within the organisation, contact telephone number, and email address. Description of the charity Provide a description of your present work, where it’s delivered, the priorities you are addressing, and its impact. Quantify the scale of your operation – how many people do you help and how? Title and description of the proposed project Describe the project you are requesting funding for and how it will be delivered. Detail the number of people and groups who will benefit and how. Project outcomes Describe the project’s expected outputs and outcomes, and how you will undertake monitoring and evaluation. Project budget Provide a budget giving a breakdown of the total project costs. Funds raised Give a breakdown of the funds raised to date towards the project budget, including the amount of any of your own funds or reserves going towards the project. Outstanding shortfall Specify the amount of money you still need to raise towards the project budget. Please include details of any funding applications submitted that are awaiting a decision. Timetable State the timetable for the project; when it will start and be finished. If the project is ongoing, specify the date that funding is required from. Accounts Include one set of your latest accounts, annual report if available, and a list of your trustees if these are not referenced in the accounts. If your accounts show a significant surplus or deficit, high or low reserves, please explain this briefly. If your accounts are more than 12 months old, please provide draft/management accounts for the charity’s most recent financial year. The Heritage & Conservation category has a two-stage funding process. Details of this and the application submission deadlines can be found here . Is my charity eligible for a grant from Charles Hayward Foundation? We have strict criteria for awarding grants. Use our eligibility checker to see if your charity complies with our guidelines