Social & Criminal Justice We're here to help Please call us now on 01727 853 991 or fill the form below. We fund projects which help to prevent people entering the criminal justice system, and which support those in contact with the system to rebuild their lives. UK registered charities that have an annual income between £350,000 and £4,000,000. Please note we are unlikely to make a grant to large charities which have endowments, make grants themselves, hold large reserves and/or have substantial contractual arrangements with the government. We fund projects operating in the British Isles. We consider the quality of the projects more important than their geographical location. We only fund projects in the following sub-categories: Targeted early intervention programmes aimed at reaching the most troubled and vulnerable families in a community. Tailored preventative and diversionary projects for young people at risk of offending, including interventions identifying and addressing the particular needs of girls and young women. Programmes combining prison-based and community interventions dealing with the rehabilitation of offenders, accommodation and support on release, maintaining family relationships, mentoring, and creating pathways to employment. Schemes offering viable alternatives to custody, in particular for women and young people. Programmes of support that alleviate the consequences of domestic abuse. In the Social & Criminal Justice category, we do not fund: Policy and research Short term interventions Trips and youth volunteering Uniformed organisations Generic youth programmes Capital projects Immigration advice and legal support Please also see our general funding exclusions . The trustees look for projects which: Address multiple and complex needs with a range of appropriate interventions. Are tailored to individual needs and local situations involving families and communities; these can be designed and delivered in partnership. Are of appropriate duration and intensity, have a clear rationale, and are properly monitored and evaluated. Have a plan for the future, including an ‘exit strategy’. The Foundation is also open to creative and specialist approaches and trialling new solutions. The trustees will fund projects over one to three years, with grants of £15,000 – £25,000 per annum. Please submit a proposal (no more than four A4 pages in length) by email to grants@charleshaywardfoundation.org.uk You must include the following information and attachments: Charity name, address, and registered charity number Contact details Your name and position within the organisation, contact telephone number, and email address. Description of the charity Provide a description of your present work, where it’s delivered, the priorities you are addressing, and its impact. Quantify the scale of your operation – how many people do you help and how? Title and description of the proposed project Describe the project you are requesting funding for and how it will be delivered. Detail the number of people and groups who will benefit and how. Project outcomes Describe the project’s expected outputs and outcomes, and how you will undertake monitoring and evaluation. Project budget Provide a budget giving a breakdown of the total project costs. Funds raised Give a breakdown of the funds raised to date towards the project budget, including the amount of any of your own funds going towards the project. Outstanding shortfall Specify the amount of money you still need to raise towards the project budget. Please include details of any funding applications submitted that are awaiting a decision. Timetable State the timetable for the project; when it will start and be finished. If the project is ongoing, specify the date that funding is required from. Accounts Include one set of your latest accounts, annual report if available, and a list of your trustees if these are not referenced in the accounts. If your accounts show a significant surplus or deficit, high or low reserves, please explain this briefly. If your accounts are more than 12 months old, please provide draft/management accounts for the charity’s most recent financial year. The Social & Criminal Justice category has a two-stage funding process. Details of this and the application submission deadlines can be found here . Is my charity eligible for a grant from Charles Hayward Foundation? We have strict criteria for awarding grants. Use our eligibility checker to see if your charity complies with our guidelines