Older People We're here to help Please call us now on 01727 853 991 or fill the form below. We fund predominantly small, local projects which improve the physical and emotional health of older people. UK registered charities that have an annual income of less than £350,000. We fund projects operating in the British Isles. We consider the quality of the projects more important than their geographical location. We only fund projects exclusively for the benefit of older people (over 60s) in the following sub-categories: Programmes aiming to alleviate isolation and depression in older people, including informal day care, or regular social, physical and recreational activities. Programmes which give practical help, assistance and support for older people living in their own homes. Programmes addressing the emotional and practical needs of people with dementia and their carers. Programmes aiming to alleviate isolation and depression in older people, including informal day care, or regular social, physical and recreational activities. Programmes which give practical help, assistance and support for older people living in their own homes. Programmes addressing the emotional and practical needs of people with dementia and their carers. In the Older People category, we do not fund: Older people’s projects that are restricted to one section of society. Services to benefit people with specific health conditions, with the exception of dementia. Capital costs of buildings or equipment Building maintenance and repairs Community transport Purchases of minibuses Disability access Meal delivery services Please also see our general funding exclusions . The trustees look to fund projects which: Are preventative and being delivered at the community level, and which allow older people to stay in their own homes and remain independent. Can demonstrate their effectiveness in improving the quality of life of older people. Offer a consistent and sustained benefit rather than one-off events or short-lived activities. The trustees will fund projects with a one year grant of up to £7,000. If you have any questions or are unsure as to the suitability of your application, please call us on 020 7370 7063 to discuss your possible submission with one of our staff members. Please complete the application form , which can be downloaded from the bottom of this webpage. Email your completed application form to: grants@charleshaywardfoundation.org.uk . You must also include the following: Your most recently audited or examined annual accounts . Draft/management accounts for the most recent full financial year (only if your audited or examined accounts are more than 12 months old). If your accounts show a significant surplus or deficit, high or low reserves, please explain this briefly. The trustees will consider the overall financial position of the charity, including the level of unrestricted reserves, when awarding grants. A list of trustees (only if they are not named in your accounts). A copy of the charity’s latest bank statement . Please make sure it clearly shows the charity name. Is the same bank account to which, should you be successful with your application, your grant will be paid into. There are no submission deadlines – we accept applications at any time during the year. We will confirm receipt of all complete and correctly submitted applications, and we aim to notify you of the outcome of your application within four months. Older People Application Form Older People Category Guidelines Is my charity eligible for a grant from Charles Hayward Foundation? We have strict criteria for awarding grants. Use our eligibility checker to see if your charity complies with our guidelines