Overseas We're here to help Please call us now on 01727 853 991 or fill the form below. We fund projects that improve the livelihoods of disadvantaged communities in Commonwealth countries of Africa. UK registered charities that have an annual income of between £150,000 and £4,000,000. We fund projects being delivered in the Commonwealth countries of Africa: Botswana, Cameroon, Eswatini, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Zambia. We only fund projects in the following sub-categories: Clean water and sanitation. Development of sustainable livelihoods in the context of environmental and wildlife conservation. Self-sustainability through training in farming skills and other income generation activities. In the Overseas category, we do not fund: Disaster appeals Education Gap years, electives, project visits overseas Overseas disability awareness Please also see our general funding exclusions . The trustees look for projects which: Adopt a holistic approach throughout all project stages and have a well-defined ‘exit strategy’. Are delivered at the grass-roots level through an established and proven delivery partner who is fully engaged with the local community. Clearly demonstrate local communities’ involvement, and that necessary training and education is in place to sustain the project beyond the delivery partner’s departure. The applicant must also be able to demonstrate that robust governance and monitoring procedures are in place. The trustees will fund projects with a one year grant of up to £15,000. Please submit a proposal (no more than four A4 pages in length) by email to grants@charleshaywardfoundation.org.uk You must include the following information and attachments: Charity name, address, and registered charity number Contact details Your name and position within the organisation, contact telephone number, and email address. Description of the charity Provide a description of your present work, where it’s delivered, the priorities you are addressing, and its impact. Quantify the scale of your operation – how many people do you help and how? Title and description of the proposed project Describe the project you are requesting funding for and how it will be delivered. Detail the number of people and groups who will benefit and how. Project outcomes Describe the project’s expected outputs and outcomes, and how you will undertake monitoring and evaluation. Project budget Provide a budget giving a breakdown of the total project costs. Funds raised Give a breakdown of the funds raised to date towards the project budget, including the amount of any of your own funds or reserves going towards the project. Outstanding shortfall Specify the amount of money you still need to raise towards the project budget. Please include details of any funding applications submitted that are awaiting a decision. Timetable State the timetable for the project; when it will start and be finished. If the project is ongoing, specify the date that funding is required from. Accounts Include one set of your latest accounts, annual report if available, and a list of your trustees if these are not referenced in the accounts. If your accounts show a significant surplus or deficit, high or low reserves, please explain this briefly. If your accounts are more than 12 months old, please provide draft/management accounts for the charity’s most recent financial year. The Overseas category has a two-stage funding process. Details of this and the application submission deadlines can be found here . Is my charity eligible for a grant from Charles Hayward Foundation? We have strict criteria for awarding grants. Use our eligibility checker to see if your charity complies with our guidelines