Grant holder FAQ We're here to help Please call us now on 01727 853 991 or fill the form below. Grant holder FAQ This process differs for our funding categories – please see the relevant category below. Older People category There’s no need to claim the grant, it will be paid via bank transfer within a week of receiving your grant award letter. Social & Criminal Justice, Overseas, and Heritage & Conservation categories You must have emailed us to accept the grant conditions detailed in the grant offer letter. To claim your grant you will need to send us an email that includes confirmation of the following: The grant project is ready to be delivered as described in your grant application. That all project funding is in place. The charity’s bank details (account name, number and sort code). The Foundation pays grants at the end of each month. Payment requests must be submitted by the 20 th of the month, for payment the same month. The grant period will start at the beginning of the month immediately following payment. This process differs for our funding categories – please see the relevant category below. Older People category We do not require you to submit a report on the project. We trust that the grant will be spent as directed and it will help to further the work of your charity. Social & Criminal Justice, Overseas, and Heritage & Conservation categories We require a report within a year of the grant payment. We don’t have a template/form for reporting, you can provide the report in any format, but it should be no more than four A4 pages in length, and should include: Details of the project delivery during the year and the extent to which the objectives stated in your original application are being met. A summary of the outputs and outcomes for the project. Any key challenges and learnings. A project financial summary detailing expenditure against the original project budget. For multi-year grants, all second/third year grant instalments will only be paid on receipt of a satisfactory progress report. In addition to the report information above, you must also provide a project budget for the upcoming year, as well as confirmation of the charity’s bank details. If the charity’s bank account changes we will also require you to email us a recent bank statement. No, unfortunately, the Foundation cannot offer continuation funding. We receive many more funding requests than we can support, and the trustees prefer to make grants to a wide range of charities. You must wait at least two years from the date of the last grant payment before you are able to re-apply to the Foundation. We are happy for you to acknowledge the grant on your website and/or in your annual accounts. If you wish to acknowledge the Foundation’s support in any press, publicity or communications, you must contact us for approval in advance. If you would like to use the Foundation’s logo, please contact grants@charleshaywardfoundation.org.uk You must wait at least two years from the date of the last grant payment before re-applying to the Foundation. If you do re-apply, please check our website to make sure your charity and the project you’re requesting funding for still meets our eligibility criteria and priorities.