Content Search Navigation Sitemap Accessibility Syncona recognises the importance of providing a website that is accessible to everyone and easy to use. On this page, we outline our ongoing commitment to making our online services accessible. Accessibility features of this site include; Pages which can be viewed on a wide range of screen resolutions. Facility for the user to enlarge the text size. This can be helpful to users with visual impairments. The use of alternative text to describe the content of a picture. This is useful for text-based browsers and/or for users with visual impairments. Increased contrast between background and text for readability purposes. Page structure which is easy to navigate through a clear and user-friendly menu that is visible on each page of the site and uses HTML headings. The use of ‘cascading style sheets’ with properly structured markup for content. If style sheets are not supported or are turned off, information on the site can still be accessed and read. Minimal use of JavaScript. Where it is used then all pages are still accessible should JavaScript be turned off. Facility to navigate fields in online forms with the keyboard 'tab' key. This is particularly helpful to users with mobility disabilities or visual impairments. A sitemap to provide information about the layout of the website. We believe that this website meets the requirements of the level 1 and 2 criteria of the World Wide Web Consortium Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) 2.0 guidelines. We strive to meet level 3 whenever possible. We adhere to the accepted standards for accessibility and usability whenever we can, although it is not always possible to do so in all areas of the website, especially where guidelines are still evolving. Syncona is committed to making our online services inclusive because accessibility has a positive effect on general usability and we believe that websites that are accessible and usable benefit everyone. We will continue to review, test and modify our website for usability and accessibility issues and aim to ensure maintaining compliance is part of our ongoing commitment. For more information about the guidelines issued by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) to remove barriers to accessibility, visit Web Accessibility Initiative at the W3C. If you have questions or concerns regarding this website then please contact us . About View this section View this section Who we are NAV Growth Framework View this section View this section Who we are NAV Growth Framework Our people View this section View this section Board of Directors View this section View this section Board of Directors Portfolio View this section View this section Commercial companies Overview Autolus Therapeutics Late-stage clinical companies Overview Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Clinical companies Overview iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics Pre-clinical companies Overview Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Previous portfolio companies Overview Gyroscope Therapeutics Blue Earth Nightstar Neogene Therapeutics 14MG Azeria Therapeutics Clade Therapeutics View this section View this section Commercial companies Overview Autolus Therapeutics Overview Autolus Therapeutics Late-stage clinical companies Overview Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Overview Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Clinical companies Overview iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics Overview iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics Pre-clinical companies Overview Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Overview Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Previous portfolio companies Overview Gyroscope Therapeutics Blue Earth Nightstar Neogene Therapeutics 14MG Azeria Therapeutics Clade Therapeutics Overview Gyroscope Therapeutics Blue Earth Nightstar Neogene Therapeutics 14MG Azeria Therapeutics Clade Therapeutics Sustainability View this section View this section Our approach to sustainability reporting Syncona Fellowship Sustainability policies View this section View this section Our approach to sustainability reporting Syncona Fellowship Sustainability policies The Foundation News & insights View this section View this section News Insights & articles Publications & presentations View this section View this section News Insights & articles Publications & presentations Investors View this section View this section Results and presentations RNS and inside information Share price centre Governance Our Committees Financial calendar Events calendar Analysts and advisers Shareholder information Overview Regulatory publications Shareholder documents FAQs View this section View this section Results and presentations RNS and inside information Share price centre Governance Our Committees Financial calendar Events calendar Analysts and advisers Shareholder information Overview Regulatory publications Shareholder documents Overview Regulatory publications Shareholder documents FAQs Contact Search