Content Search Navigation Sitemap Investors FAQs If you have a question which is not answered by the information in these FAQs or elsewhere on our website, please contact investorrelations@synconaltd.com . Where do you announce the date of your financial results? Dates for upcoming financial results are displayed on our financial calendar page . When does your fiscal year end? Syncona’s financial year ends on 31 March. Who regulates Syncona Ltd? Syncona Investment Management Limited (SIML), the Investment Manager managing the investment portfolio on behalf of the Board of Syncona Ltd, is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority as an Alternative Investment Fund Manager. What is your valuation policy? The Group’s investments in life science companies are, in the case of quoted companies, valued based on bid prices in an active market as at the reporting date. In the case of the Group’s investments in unlisted companies, the fair value is determined in accordance with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital (“IPEV”) Valuation Guidelines. These may include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, Discounted Cash Flow (“DCF”) analysis and earnings multiples as valuation techniques. Wherever possible, the Group uses valuation techniques which make maximum use of market-based inputs. What is your valuation approach for assets valued on a DCF basis? Syncona utilises a risk-adjusted net present value (“rNPV”) approach to DCF analysis. Syncona believes that this approach is particularly relevant for our investments given it allows for each future cash-flow to be adjusted for the likelihood of it occurring. This is particularly appropriate for drug development as it progresses as a series of stages (trials) where discrete probabilities can be applied and where there are large datasets available to benchmark the risks at various stages. This allows for the risk premium for the technical, clinical and regulatory risk to be taken out of the discount rate and accounted for via the probabilities. This differs from a standard net present value (“NPV”) approach which does not use probability adjustment of cashflows. Both rNPV and NPV are valid methodologies but only a rNPV reflects the de-risking nature of the drug development process and therefore represents a more accurate profile of how risk and value evolve over time. How often do you value your portfolio? We value our portfolio every quarter, with updates outside this revaluation cycle driven by new investment rounds or following material new information. Who is your auditor? Deloitte is the independent auditor to Syncona. Who is your registrar? MUFG Pension & Market Services act as registrar to Syncona. How do I transfer my shares to someone else? Should you wish to transfer your shares to someone else, you can complete a stock transfer form on the MUFG Pension & Market Services website . How do I buy shares in Syncona Ltd? You can buy shares in Syncona Ltd via most traditional routes, including via financial adviser, online broker, or bank. What do I do if I change address? If you move residence, you can change your address easily on the online MUFG Pension & Market Services Share Portal. Do you pay a dividend? The Company’s investment objective is to achieve superior long term capital appreciation from its investment. Accordingly, it does not pay a dividend. Where can I find your annual report? How do I get sent a hard copy? The latest Annual Report can be found on the investors section of this website. In order to receive a hard copy of the Annual Report, please contact 020 3981 7909 or investorrelations@synconaltd.com . Is it possible to vote by proxy at the AGM? Shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may appoint a proxy to speak or vote on their behalf. In order to appoint a proxy, please fill out the proxy form, found on our document library. Where is your key information document? The key information document can be found on the regulatory publications section of this website. Where can I find company RNS announcements? Current and historic RNS announcements can be found on our RNS and inside information page . Syncona legal disclaimer Please read the below disclaimer carefully. You will be asked to accept these terms and conditions before proceeding. The information on this website is directed only at persons who are shareholders in Syncona Limited (the “Company”) and is provided for their exclusive use and benefit. Users of this website are responsible for observing all applicable laws and regulations in their relevant jurisdictions before proceeding to access the information contained herein. By proceeding to access the information, users are deemed to be representing and warranting that the applicable laws and regulations of their relevant jurisdiction allow them to do so. No information, materials or opinions contained on this website (“Materials”) constitute or would be deemed to constitute a recommendation or invitation in any jurisdiction to invest or otherwise deal in the shares of the Company (the “Shares”). The website that you are seeking to access does not constitute an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned in the website in any jurisdiction or jurisdictions in which such offers or sales are unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. In particular, the securities mentioned in the website have not been and will not be registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or exemption from registration under the Securities Act and other securities laws. There will be no public offer of these securities in the United States. Offers and sales of these securities, and distribution of the related information, may also be subject to restrictions in other jurisdictions. The website that you are seeking to access is not directed at and may not be viewed by or distributed to persons: in the United States or who are U.S persons (as defined in Rule 902 under the Securities Act); or located in a jurisdiction where it is not lawful to access the materials. The Materials are provided on an “as is” and “as available basis” and do not purport to be full or complete. The Company and its affiliates believe that the source of the Materials is reliable however they cannot and do not guarantee, either expressly or implicitly, and accept no liability for, the accuracy, validity, timeliness, merchantability or completeness of any information or data (whether prepared by the Company, its affiliates or by any third party) for any particular purpose or use or that the information or data will be free from error. The Company and its affiliates do not undertake any responsibility for any reliance which is placed by any person on any statements or opinions which are expressed herein. Neither the Company, nor any of its affiliates, directors, officers or employees will be liable or have any responsibility of any kind for any loss or damage that any person may incur resulting from the use of this information.Nothing contained in this website constitutes financial, investment, legal, tax or other advice and is not to be relied on in making an investment or other decision. You should obtain relevant and specific professional advice before making any investment decision. The Materials on this website are provided for your personal use and informational purposes only and are subject to change without notice. The Company has the right to suspend or withdraw the provision of all or any of the website of the Materials without prior notice at any time. The value of investments mentioned in this site, and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not get back the amount invested. Information on past performance, where given, is not a guide to future performance. Changes in rates of exchange between currencies may cause the value of investments to decrease or increase. The Company is a registered closed-ended collective investment scheme registered pursuant to the Protection of Investors (Bailiwick of Guernsey) Law, 1987, as amended (the ‘‘POI Law’’) and the Registered Collective Investment Scheme Rules 2008 (the ‘‘CIS Rules’’) issued by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission (the ‘‘GFSC’’). Neither the GFSC nor the States of Guernsey Policy Council take any responsibility for the financial soundness of the Company or for the correctness of any of the statements made or opinions expressed with regard to it. Copyright Copyright of all images and text in this website is owned by or licensed to the Company or one of its affiliates unless otherwise noted. You may imprint, copy, download or temporarily store extracts from this website for your personal information and use. Any other use is prohibited unless you first request and obtain the prior written consent of the Company. You may not alter or otherwise make any changes to any material that you print or download from this website, including, without limitation, removing any identifying marks or legends from such material. In particular, you may not copy or use any part of this website on any other website, or link any other website to this website, without the prior written permission of the Company. You may not use the website for any purpose which is unlawful, abusive, libellous, obscene or threatening. No warranty The Materials contained in this website are provided without any warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied, to the fullest extent permissible pursuant to applicable law. Neither the Company nor its affiliates assume any responsibility for the uninterrupted availability of this website or warrant that it will be error-free, that defects will be corrected, or that this website or the servers that make it available will be free of viruses or other harmful components. Liability waiver You agree that under no circumstances, including, but not limited to, negligence, shall the Company or any of its affiliates be liable for any special or consequential damages that result from the access or use of, or the inability to access or use, the Materials on this website. This does not exclude or restrict any duty or liability that the Company has to its customers under the regulatory system in the United Kingdom or Guernsey. Privacy policy This policy sets out what the Company and its affiliates do with any personal information collected from this website. Any personal information collected from this website will be processed in accordance with relevant data protection laws. You may use the public areas of this website without providing the Company or its affiliates with any personal information and the Company and its affiliates do not monitor or collect any personal information through your access to the public areas of this website. The Company and its affiliates do not use cookies to collect information but may gather other anonymous information to assist in improving the services. If you chose to provide the Company and its affiliates with personal information, this information will only be used for the purposes of the service that you have requested. The Company and its affiliates will not sell or transfer any personal information to third parties without your permission, other than as required by law. The Company and its affiliates are not responsible for the content or privacy policies of websites to which this website may link. The Company and its affiliates are committed to protecting your personal information but in the event that the system is infiltrated by unauthorised third parties the Company and its affiliates will not be liable for any resulting misuse of personal information. Linked sites The Company has not reviewed any website linked to this website and is not responsible for the contents of off-site pages or any other websites linked or linking to this website. If you follow any links from this website you do so at your own risk. Links to this website may not be established without the prior written consent of the Company. Governing law The terms and conditions of this legal notice shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Guernsey. Users of this website agree that any dispute or action arising out of or relating to these terms or any user’s use of this website shall be commenced only in the courts located in Guernsey, and users of this website hereby consent and submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts for the purposes of any such dispute or action. By accessing Materials on this website you agree to be bound by the foregoing limitations. About View this section View this section Who we are NAV Growth Framework View this section View this section Who we are NAV Growth Framework Our people View this section View this section Board of Directors View this section View this section Board of Directors Portfolio View this section View this section Commercial companies Overview Autolus Therapeutics Late-stage clinical companies Overview Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Clinical companies Overview iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics Pre-clinical companies Overview Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Previous portfolio companies Overview Gyroscope Therapeutics Blue Earth Nightstar Neogene Therapeutics 14MG Azeria Therapeutics Clade Therapeutics View this section View this section Commercial companies Overview Autolus Therapeutics Overview Autolus Therapeutics Late-stage clinical companies Overview Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Overview Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Clinical companies Overview iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics Overview iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics Pre-clinical companies Overview Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Overview Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Previous portfolio companies Overview Gyroscope Therapeutics Blue Earth Nightstar Neogene Therapeutics 14MG Azeria Therapeutics Clade Therapeutics Overview Gyroscope Therapeutics Blue Earth Nightstar Neogene Therapeutics 14MG Azeria Therapeutics Clade Therapeutics Sustainability View this section View this section Our approach to sustainability reporting Syncona Fellowship Sustainability policies View this section View this section Our approach to sustainability reporting Syncona Fellowship Sustainability policies The Foundation News & insights View this section View this section News Insights & articles Publications & presentations View this section View this section News Insights & articles Publications & presentations Investors View this section View this section Results and presentations RNS and inside information Share price centre Governance Our Committees Financial calendar Events calendar Analysts and advisers Shareholder information Overview Regulatory publications Shareholder documents FAQs View this section View this section Results and presentations RNS and inside information Share price centre Governance Our Committees Financial calendar Events calendar Analysts and advisers Shareholder information Overview Regulatory publications Shareholder documents Overview Regulatory publications Shareholder documents FAQs Contact Search