Content Search Navigation Sitemap Privacy & cookies What data do we collect and how do we collect it? We use cookies as set out below to make your experience of our website more efficient. These collect generic information that may be associated with you. We also collect your personal data if you sign up to receive news from us. These are collected by third party firms on our behalf. We have two separate lists: RNS alerts, to send you details when we issue a Regulatory News Service announcement. These records are held by BrighterIR. The BrighterIR privacy statement is available here: https://www.brighterir.com/gdpr-privacy-cookie-policy/ Syncona company news and portfolio updates. These records are held by MailChimp. The MailChimp privacy statement is available here: https://mailchimp.com/legal/privacy/ (see the section relating to Privacy for Contacts). We do not knowingly collect personal information from or about any person under the age of 16 and this site is not intended for children under the age of 16. If you are under 16 years old and wish to contact us, please get your parent or guardian to do so on your behalf. What do we do with your data? We aim to collect only personal information that we can justify we need for our legitimate business purposes. Typically that will be to provide you with information about Syncona. Requesting information we hold about you If you have submitted information to us, you may get in touch at any time to ask for a copy of the information we hold about you and to have any mistakes corrected or apply any updates, or to ask us to cease to hold the information. If you would like us to remove your information from our news alerts contact lists, you can also do this directly through the BrighterIR site or MailChimp site . Protecting your personal information and data retention As described above, the records held to send news to you are held by third party providers in their systems. Information is retained for as long as you continue to receive news alerts. Third party website links Parts of our site incorporate content from third party websites, as follows: RNS and Inside Information section of the site is provided by Brighter IR. The BrighterIR privacy statement is available here: https://www.brighterir.com/gdpr-privacy-cookie-policy/ When you leave our website by following a link to another site, it will have its own privacy notices, policies and use of cookies which we suggest you review. This also applies if you use the “sharing” links to share a page via social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter or LinkedIn. Cookies A cookie is a small text file that is stored on your computer or mobile device when you visit a website – Syncona uses these to make a user’s experience more efficient. The law states that we can store cookies on your device if they are strictly necessary for the operation of the site. For all other types of cookies we need your permission. Details of the cookies used on our website are provided below: Necessary (3 cookies) Name Provider Purpose Expiry Type ARRAffinity www.synconaltd.com Used for load balancing to make sure the visitor page requests are routed to the same server in any browsing session. Session HTTP Cookie smConsent www.synconaltd.com Stores the user’s cookie consent state 1 year HTTP Cookie accept_disclaimer www.synconaltd.com Store the user's disclaimer consent state Session HTTP Cookie Performance (3) Name Provider Purpose Expiry Type _ga www.synconaltd.com Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website. 2 years HTTP Cookie _gat www.synconaltd.com Used by Google Analytics to throttle request rate Session HTTP Cookie _gid www.synconaltd.com Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website. Session HTTP Cookie When you first access the website, you are asked to consent to the use of cookies including performance cookies. You can view and change your cookie settings at any time here . Most web browsers allow some control of most cookies through the browser settings. To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been set and how to manage and delete them, visit www.aboutcookies.org or www.allaboutcookies.org . This website does not currently respond to “Do Not Track” browser requests. We use tracking software provided by Google Analytics which uses the performance cookies described above to track visitor usage. The software tracks and monitors your engagement and usage of the website, but will not store, save or collect personal information. You can read Google’s privacy policy here for further information http://www.google.com/privacy.html . To opt out of being tracked by Google Analytics across all websites visit https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout . Contacting us If you have any questions specifically about this Privacy notice or our privacy practices please email us at: contact@synconaltd.com Changes to this Privacy notice We reserve the right to amend this Privacy notice at any time and will post any revisions on this page. About View this section View this section Who we are NAV Growth Framework View this section View this section Who we are NAV Growth Framework Our people View this section View this section Board of Directors View this section View this section Board of Directors Portfolio View this section View this section Commercial companies Overview Autolus Therapeutics Late-stage clinical companies Overview Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Clinical companies Overview iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics Pre-clinical companies Overview Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Previous portfolio companies Overview Gyroscope Therapeutics Blue Earth Nightstar Neogene Therapeutics 14MG Azeria Therapeutics Clade Therapeutics View this section View this section Commercial companies Overview Autolus Therapeutics Overview Autolus Therapeutics Late-stage clinical companies Overview Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Overview Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Clinical companies Overview iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics Overview iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics Pre-clinical companies Overview Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Overview Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Previous portfolio companies Overview Gyroscope Therapeutics Blue Earth Nightstar Neogene Therapeutics 14MG Azeria Therapeutics Clade Therapeutics Overview Gyroscope Therapeutics Blue Earth Nightstar Neogene Therapeutics 14MG Azeria Therapeutics Clade Therapeutics Sustainability View this section View this section Our approach to sustainability reporting Syncona Fellowship Sustainability policies View this section View this section Our approach to sustainability reporting Syncona Fellowship Sustainability policies The Foundation News & insights View this section View this section News Insights & articles Publications & presentations View this section View this section News Insights & articles Publications & presentations Investors View this section View this section Results and presentations RNS and inside information Share price centre Governance Our Committees Financial calendar Events calendar Analysts and advisers Shareholder information Overview Regulatory publications Shareholder documents FAQs View this section View this section Results and presentations RNS and inside information Share price centre Governance Our Committees Financial calendar Events calendar Analysts and advisers Shareholder information Overview Regulatory publications Shareholder documents Overview Regulatory publications Shareholder documents FAQs Contact Search