Content Search Navigation Sitemap Portfolio A portfolio of life science companies diversified across different stages of the development cycle and a range of therapeutic areas. Portfolio in numbers Unless stated all financials at 31 March 2025 Value of life science portfolio High quality strategic companies At clinical and commercial stage A diversified portfolio Commercial companies Autolus Therapeutics Late-stage clinical companies Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Clinical companies iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics Pre-clinical companies Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Commercial companies Syncona's portfolio includes commercial-stage companies that have products being marketed and sold in approved territories. Autolus Therapeutics Autolus Therapeutics Autolus is a CAR T cell therapy company, applying its extensive programming capabilities to develop advanced autologous T cell therapies that have the potential to deliver life-changing therapies to patients with cancer and autoimmune diseases. Late-stage clinical companies Syncona’s late-stage clinical companies have advanced past Phase II clinical trials and working towards delivering potential key value inflection points that have the potential to deliver significant NAV growth, through M&A and liquidity events. Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Beacon Therapeutics Beacon is a leading ophthalmic gene therapy company with a purpose to restore and improve the vision of patients with a range of prevalent and rare retinal diseases that result in blindness. Syncona launched Beacon in June 2023, having invested £75 million of the £96 million Series A financing. As part of this Series A financing, AGTC was combined with new Syncona company, Beacon Therapeutics, merging AGTC’s lead clinical gene therapy asset with two exciting pre-clinical programmes, including one from the University of Oxford. In July 2024 Syncona committed an additional $42.5 million (£33.5 million) to a $170 million (£134 million) Series B financing, bringing the total amount that Beacon has raised in funding to date to approximately $290 million. Syncona believes the eye is a very attractive target for AAV gene therapy, as exemplified by the number of programmes in development and the approval of voretigene neparvovec (Luxturna) by the FDA in 2017. It is a small, compartmentalised, tissue to which gene therapy vectors have been demonstrated to be delivered directly in a safe manner, meaning that the vector can reach the target cells more readily and lower doses are required. Furthermore, the target cells are terminally differentiated and therefore AAV gene therapy can provide a prolonged effect, as demonstrated by the various programmes in the clinic to date. Beacon is Syncona’s third investment in the ophthalmic gene therapy space, in which Syncona has an impressive track record of creating, building and scaling gene therapy companies, with Nightstar being sold for $877m, at a 4.5x multiple of cost, and Gyroscope up to $1.5bn, at a potential 5.1x multiple of cost. Beacon’s lead asset, AGTC-501, is a gene therapy program currently in Phase II clinical trials for the treatment of XLRP, an inherited monogenic recessive disorder that causes progressive vision loss in boys and young men. Most people with the disease progress to becoming legally blind by their 40s. XLRP is predominantly caused by mutations in the RPGR gene. AGTC-501 expresses the full length RPGR transgene, thereby addressing the full complement of photoreceptor damage caused by XLRP, including both rod and cone loss. There are no approved treatments for XLRP and the programme has orphan drug designations from both the FDA and the European Commission. Beacon represents a significant opportunity for Syncona to apply its deep expertise in retinal gene therapy to a late-stage clinical asset where Syncona already has prior expertise. We believe that the platform potential of Beacon is incredibly exciting, and has the potential to drive near-term value for our shareholders. Spur Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics is a clinical-stage biotechnology company focused on developing life-changing gene therapies for debilitating chronic conditions. Clinical companies Syncona’s clinical companies have screened and enrolled the first patient into a clinical trial and are scaling towards late-stage development. iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics iOnctura iOnctura is a clinical-stage oncology company developing innovative therapies for neglected and hard-to-treat cancers. Quell Therapeutics Quell Therapeutics was founded with the aim of developing engineered T regulatory (Treg) cell therapies. Tregs are a subset of T cells with the potential to downregulate the immune system. Anaveon Anaveon is a clinical phase biopharmaceutical company that specialises in the development of treatments for diseases with immune system dysfunction. Mosaic Therapeutics Based in Cambridge, UK, Mosaic is an oncology therapeutics company with a highly specialised drug discovery platform, focused on discovering, developing and commercialising novel, targeted, therapies to target cancers in areas of high unmet need. Syncona led a £22.5 million Series A financing of the company in 2022, committing £16.5 million alongside Cambridge Innovation Capital. Resolution Therapeutics Resolution is developing macrophage cell therapies to repair inflammatory organ damage. Pre-clinical companies Syncona’s pre-clinical portfolio companies are developing their pipelines, proprietary platforms and progressing towards entering clinical trials. Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Purespring Therapeutics Purespring seeks to advance gene therapies for the treatment of chronic renal diseases that are currently poorly addressed with existing treatments. Forcefield Therapeutics Forcefield is a pioneer of best-in-class therapeutics to protect heart function by arresting the loss of cardiomyocytes following myocardial infarction (heart attacks). Myocardial infarction (MI) triggers the irreversible loss of large numbers of cardiomyocytes, or heart cells, which can lead to a cascade of events leading to heart failure. Up to 30% of cardiomyocytes can be lost during and immediately after MI. OMass Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics is an Oxford University spin-out that is using novel biochemistry techniques, native mass spectrometry and custom chemistry to deliver novel medicines against highly validated but inadequately drugged targets, with a focus on immunological and rare diseases. Kesmalea Therapeutics Kesmalea is a small molecule drug discovery company established with the aim of creating a new generation of oral drugs addressing diseases through modulating protein homeostasis. Syncona led a £25 million Series A financing in the company in 2022, committing £20 million alongside Oxford Science Enterprises. An additional £5.0 million was raised in 2023 with Syncona committing £4.0 million. Yellowstone Biosciences Yellowstone is pioneering soluble T-cell receptor (TCR)-based therapies to unlock a new class of cancer therapeutics. Slingshot Therapeutics Slingshot, the Syncona Accelerator, is focused on accumulating a pipeline of early-stage programmes, identified from world-leading academic institutions, and accelerating their development towards the clinic. Previous portfolio companies Gyroscope Therapeutics Syncona founded Gyroscope in 2016, to explore the convergence of advancements made in the understanding of the complement system’s impact on eye disease, the genetic basis of dry age-related macular degeneration (AMD), and gene therapy as a mode of sustained treatment delivery. Gyroscope’s gene therapy seeks to treat dry AMD by safely and effectively delivering a functioning gene to the eye using Adeno-Associated Virus (AAV) technology. Blue Earth Blue Earth Diagnostics was founded to develop and commercialise molecular imaging agents, addressing areas of high unmet medical need. Nightstar Nightstar was a leading clinical-stage gene therapy company focused on developing and commercialising novel one-time treatments for patients suffering from rare inherited retinal diseases that would otherwise progress to blindness. Neogene Therapeutics Neogene was founded in 2018, based on the work of Dr Ton Schumacher, a leading cancer immunologist, and Dr Carsten Linnemann, who was previously associate director of next generation T cell therapy at Kite Pharma. In 2020 Syncona co-led the company’s $110 million Series A financing round, committing $19 million alongside EcoR1 Capital, Jeito Capital, Polaris Partners, Pontifax, Vida Ventures, TPG and Two River. 14MG 14M Genomics was a cancer diagnostic business that was founded in partnership with the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute in 2014. Azeria Therapeutics Azeria was a small molecule drug discovery company targeting treatment of oestrogen receptor positive breast cancer. Clade Therapeutics Clade Therapeutics was founded in 2021 with the aim of discovering and delivering scalable next generation induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived medicines. Attracting world-class talent within our portfolio Expansion of our senior team Introduction from Quell Therapeutics, CEO, Iain McGill Related content About View this section View this section Who we are NAV Growth Framework View this section View this section Who we are NAV Growth Framework Our people View this section View this section Board of Directors View this section View this section Board of Directors Portfolio View this section View this section Commercial companies Overview Autolus Therapeutics Late-stage clinical companies Overview Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Clinical companies Overview iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics Pre-clinical companies Overview Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Previous portfolio companies Overview Gyroscope Therapeutics Blue Earth Nightstar Neogene Therapeutics 14MG Azeria Therapeutics Clade Therapeutics View this section View this section Commercial companies Overview Autolus Therapeutics Overview Autolus Therapeutics Late-stage clinical companies Overview Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Overview Beacon Therapeutics Spur Therapeutics Clinical companies Overview iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics Overview iOnctura Quell Therapeutics Anaveon Mosaic Therapeutics Resolution Therapeutics Pre-clinical companies Overview Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Overview Purespring Therapeutics Forcefield Therapeutics OMass Therapeutics Kesmalea Therapeutics Yellowstone Biosciences Slingshot Therapeutics Previous portfolio companies Overview Gyroscope Therapeutics Blue Earth Nightstar Neogene Therapeutics 14MG Azeria Therapeutics Clade Therapeutics Overview Gyroscope Therapeutics Blue Earth Nightstar Neogene Therapeutics 14MG Azeria Therapeutics Clade Therapeutics Sustainability View this section View this section Our approach to sustainability reporting Syncona Fellowship Sustainability policies View this section View this section Our approach to sustainability reporting Syncona Fellowship Sustainability policies The Foundation News & insights View this section View this section News Insights & articles Publications & presentations View this section View this section News Insights & articles Publications & presentations Investors View this section View this section Results and presentations RNS and inside information Share price centre Governance Our Committees Financial calendar Events calendar Analysts and advisers Shareholder information Overview Regulatory publications Shareholder documents FAQs View this section View this section Results and presentations RNS and inside information Share price centre Governance Our Committees Financial calendar Events calendar Analysts and advisers Shareholder information Overview Regulatory publications Shareholder documents Overview Regulatory publications Shareholder documents FAQs Contact Search