Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Working, jobs and pensions Includes holidays, finding a job and redundancy Most viewed Universal Credit Check your State Pension forecast Prove your right to work to an employer Topics Armed forces Includes reserve forces and armed forces pensions, benefits and financial assistance. Armed forces Includes reserve forces and armed forces pensions, benefits and financial assistance. Finding a job Job search, Jobseeker's Allowance (JSA), job offers, right to work share codes, apprenticeships and volunteering Finding a job Job search, Jobseeker's Allowance (JSA), job offers, right to work share codes, apprenticeships and volunteering Holidays, time off, sick leave, maternity and paternity leave Includes career breaks and the holiday entitlement calculator Holidays, time off, sick leave, maternity and paternity leave Includes career breaks and the holiday entitlement calculator Redundancies, dismissals and disciplinaries Includes solving a workplace dispute, calculating redundancy pay and dismissal Redundancies, dismissals and disciplinaries Includes solving a workplace dispute, calculating redundancy pay and dismissal State Pension Calculating State Pension, Pension Credit, eligibility, claiming and deferring State Pension Calculating State Pension, Pension Credit, eligibility, claiming and deferring Workplace and personal pensions Includes automatic enrolment, lost pensions and planning for retirement Workplace and personal pensions Includes automatic enrolment, lost pensions and planning for retirement Your contract and working hours Includes employment status, workers' rights and changes to contracts Your contract and working hours Includes employment status, workers' rights and changes to contracts Your pay, tax and the National Minimum Wage Includes National Minimum Wage rates, keeping pay records and pay rights Your pay, tax and the National Minimum Wage Includes National Minimum Wage rates, keeping pay records and pay rights Your rights at work and trade unions Includes health and safety, accidents at work and joining a trade union Your rights at work and trade unions Includes health and safety, accidents at work and joining a trade union Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab ) .