Offset mortgages Combining your mortgage and savings could reduce your monthly repayments or help you pay off your mortgage sooner. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage. What is an offset mortgage? A Guide to your Offset Options Find a mortgage rate Our mortgage rate finder can help if you’re a new YBS mortgage customer thinking of: We don’t offer mortgages on: How to get an offset mortgage Get a Decision in Principle (DIP) Apply for a mortgage Get your mortgage offer Complete Get the right advice Offset mortgages can be complicated. Make sure you fully understand your mortgage deal. Linking your savings to your mortgage will reduce the interest you pay. But, while your savings are linked they will not earn any interest. So, you may not always save money. You could also end up paying more if you take your savings out. If you need help understanding offset mortgages, please apply over the phone . Our friendly mortgage specialists will be happy to chat about your options. Get a Decision in Principle Apply online Speak to an expert 0345 166 9510 More about offset mortgages Offset Plus Offset Plus lets family and friends link their savings to your offset mortgage. This may help you reduce the cost of your mortgage. Offset Plus for mortgage holders Link up to two Offset Plus savings accounts to your offset mortgage. Find out more about How Offset Plus works for mortgage holders. Offset Plus for savers Family or friends can link an Offset Plus Savings account to your mortgage. Find out more about Offset Plus for Savers. Financial Services Compensation Scheme If Yorkshire Building Society were to fail, funds held in an Offset savings account would not be offset against the linked Offset mortgage account. This means the mortgage balance would remain separate and would not be reduced by the savings balance. The first £85,000 (per person) held in the Offset savings account would be covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). The £85,000 limit is for all deposits which a person holds with Yorkshire Building Society, so any other savings accounts would need to be taken into account. As with any savings account, funds not covered by the FSCS would need to be claimed through any insolvency proceedings. Call us 0345 166 9510 Book an appointment