Guides Learn more about saving, how mortgages work and avoiding scams. Mortgage guides Savings guides All our articles Savings guides Mastercard UK compensation scams explained Mastercard is offering compensation for people in the UK. We want to protect you from scams that may pretend to be Mastercard to get your bank details. Savings guides How do savings account interest rates work? Want to start saving money but not sure about interest rates? Learn more about how interest rates on savings accounts works here. Savings guides HMRC tax scam phone calls and messages: How to spot them Scammers may try to impersonate the HMRC. This type of scam is common during tax season, but can happen at any time of the year. Savings guides Winter fuel payment scams: How to spot and avoid them Scammers are targeting people who are worried about paying their bills. Learn how to spot a winter fuel payment scam and how to report one. Savings guides Joint savings accounts explained Find out how joint savings accounts work and how you may be able to open one with Yorkshire Building Society. Savings guides What is a money mule? There are serious consequences to being part of a money mule scam. Find out what a money mule scam is and how to spot one. Savings guides Quishing: How to spot and avoid QR code scams QR code scams – also known as quishing scams - use fake QR codes to steal money or personal details. Find out how they work and how to spot them. Savings guides What is a Fixed Rate Cash ISA? A fixed rate cash ISA is a tax-free savings account. You lock your money away for a set amount of time and get a guaranteed interest rate. Savings guides What is the ISA additional permitted subscription? The additional permitted subscription (APS) for ISAs is an extra ISA allowance. It lets you inherit the ISA allowance of a spouse or civil partner who has passed away. Savings guides Cash ISA or savings account? Find out the main differences between an ISA and a savings account. Find out why you might pick one over the other, depending on what you need. Savings guides ISA deadline explained What happens at the ISA deadline? And what does an ISA deadline mean? Find out how the changing of the tax year affects your savings. Savings guides What is a building society roll number? You use a building society roll number to send money from a bank to a building society. Find out how one works and where to find it. Savings guides Flexible ISAs explained Want to withdraw money from your Cash ISA? Learn how a flexible Cash ISA works and how it can affect your ISA allowance. Savings guides What is a building society? A building society is a company that lends money and helps people to save money. They are owned by their members, instead of shareholders. Savings guides What is an easy access savings account? Easy access savings accounts offer you flexibility around withdrawing money. There may be rules about how often you can withdraw. Savings guides Are ISAs tax free? If the interest from your savings goes above a set amount, you may need to pay tax. But not with an ISA. Find out how tax and ISAs work. Mortgage guides Should I fix my mortgage? Whether or not you fix your mortgage will depend on your circumstances and your preference. Find out how fixing a mortgage works. Savings guides How to spot and avoid cryptocurrency and bitcoin scams Worried about crypto or bitcoin scams? Find out how to spot a cryptocurrency scam and how to keep your money safe. Mortgage guides Low Deposit Mortgage Guide Thinking about a getting a mortgage deal with a high loan to value ratio? Understand the risks and benefits of taking out a low deposit mortgage. Savings guides What is the Personal Savings Allowance? What is a Personal Savings Allowance and how does it affect you? Discover more about what the PSA is and what it could mean for your savings. Mortgage guides What is the difference between leasehold and freehold? Looking to buy a home but not sure if you want a leasehold or a freehold? Find out what both mean and the differences between them here. Mortgage guides Negotiating a house price after a survey After the survey has been completed, it may have brought up issues that affect how much you’re prepared to pay for the property. Find out what your options are here. Mortgage guides What happens after receiving a mortgage offer? You’ve received a mortgage offer from a lender – what next? Find out what happens after your mortgage offer has been accepted, how long it takes and what’s next. Savings guides “Hi mum” scams: How to spot and avoid them This scam looks to trick people into sending money by pretending to be their child. Find out how to avoid this scam and stay safe. Mortgage guides How to get onto the property ladder Buying your own home is a goal for many people. But what are the best ways to get on the ladder? Start your mortgage journey here. Mortgage guides What is a Variable rate mortgage and how does one work? A variable rate mortgage is where you pay different amounts each month based on the Bank of England base rate. Find out how these types of mortgage work. Mortgage guides What is an interest only mortgage? Want to know if an interest only mortgage may be right for you? Find out how an interest only mortgage works here. Mortgage guides How do mortgage interest rates work? When you get a mortgage, knowing about interest rates is important. It can help you compare deals and decide which one is right for you. Mortgage guides Remortgaging when your house value has increased When your deal is coming to an end, you may be looking to remortgage. Find out how changes to the value of your home can affect remortgaging. Mortgage guides First time buyer mortgage guide Getting a mortgage can be complex. There’s lots to know, so we’ve put together a step by step guide to what you can expect. Mortgage guides What is porting a mortgage and how does it work? Moving home and want to take your mortgage with you? Porting your mortgage is where you buy a new home, but keep the same deal or rate. Learn more. Mortgage guides What is a mortgage product transfer? Coming to the end of your mortgage deal and not sure whether you move or stick with your lender? Find out what a product transfer is here. Mortgage guides What is a standard variable rate mortgage? Every lender has a standard variable rate mortgage. Find out what that are, how they work and why you can do if you find yourself on one. Savings guides What is AER? AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate. Find out more about the meaning of AER including how and why it is used. Mortgage guides What does negative equity mean? Heard about negative equity but not sure what it means? Discover what it is, how it works and how you may be able to avoid it. Savings guides Current vs savings account You may use both a current and savings account. Find out what each one is used for and why they are different. Mortgage guides What is APRC? The APRC (Annual Percentage Rate of Charge) shows you how much you should expect to pay during your full mortgage term. Find out more here. Mortgage guides What happens on completion day? Curious about what happens when you "complete" on a mortgage? Find out what it is, who sets the date and what you'll need to do. Savings guides 20 Money saving tips Looking for ways to spend less? Find tips on how to save money at home, from reducing bills to being clever with energy. Mortgage guides What is an offset mortgage? Curious about offset mortgages? Find out how they work and if they could help to reduce your monthly repayments here. Mortgage guides Getting a mortgage when self-employed If you’re a freelancer or own a small business, you might be curious about how this affects getting a mortgage. Find out how it works here. Mortgage guides What is a tracker mortgage? A tracker mortgage is a type of variable rate mortgage. The interest rate you pay can go up or down depending on the Bank of England Base Rate. Savings guides Money saving tips this Christmas Are you wondering how to save money this Christmas? Read our money saving tips to help make the festive period easier on your pockets. Savings guides What is a regular savings account? Want to know what a regular savings account is? Find out how they work and what situations they may be good for here. Mortgage guides What is a gifted deposit? A gifted deposit is a sum of money that could help you buy a property. But how do gifted deposits work and do you have to declare it? Read our guide. Savings guides Are you getting the most from your rainy day fund? Put money aside for an unexpected expense? If you have a rainy day fund in a low interest account, you could be missing out. Mortgage guides How to save for a house deposit Saving for a deposit on a house is easier said than done, but we’ve put together some tips to help you reduce spending and save up. Savings guides Saving a lump sum You’ve come into a large amount of money. Find out your saving options and other ways to use your lump sum. Savings guides 8 Money Saving Challenges Find it hard to save and not sure where to start? Try a savings challenges to make planning for the future a little more interesting. Mortgage guides What is a property chain and how does one work? A property chain can make the process of buying a home take a little longer. Find out how a property chain works, why they break down and what a chain-free property is. Mortgage guides What is a Decision in Principle? Getting a Decision in Principle is often one of the first steps to getting a mortgage. Find out what it is, why it can be useful and how to apply for one here. Mortgage guides Moving house checklist Getting ready for the big day? Use our checklist for moving house to make sure you don’t forget the important stuff among all the excitement. Mortgage guides What is loan to value ratio? What is a loan to value ratio when buying a home? To give you a clearer picture of your mortgage options, we explain how to calculate an LTV ratio. Mortgage guides What is gazumping? Had an offer accepted? You may not be out of the woods yet. Find out what gazumping means and ways you might be able to avoid it. Mortgage guides What is a fixed rate mortgage and how does one work? Thinking about getting a mortgage but not sure which is the best for you? Find out what a fixed rate mortgage is and how one works. Savings guides How to save for a holiday Want the most out of your holidays? We share our best money saving tips to make your trip as stress free as possible. Savings guides What is a fixed rate bond? Fixed rate bonds are a type of savings account that locks in a fixed interest rate over a fixed period. Learn more about how fixed rate bonds work. Savings guides How does transferring a Cash ISA work? Want to know how transferring a Cash ISA works? Find out the process how long it takes and if it affects your allowance here. Savings guides What is the ISA allowance? Want to know how much you pay into an ISA this tax year? Find out what the ISA allowance is and how it works with our guide. Savings guides How many ISAs can I have? Thinking about opening an ISA but not sure the rules? Find out many ISAs you can open in a tax year and how your allowance works here. Savings guides What is a Cash ISA? Want to know more about Cash ISAs? Find out how they work here and how much you can deposit per tax year. Savings guides Parcel delivery scams: spotting and avoiding them Parcel delivery scams can try to catch you out by pretending to be from a legitimate delivery service. Find out how they work and how to spot one. Savings guides How to start saving money Want to start saving forwards your future, or want a safety net just in case? Building your savings up may be easier than you think – find out how to open an account and tips for starting your saving journey. Mortgage guides Questions to ask when viewing a house Knowing what questions to ask when buying a house can help save you time, money and potential heartache when you think you’ve found ‘the one’. Mortgage guides How you could reduce your mortgage payment 5 ways to reduce your monthly mortgage payments from switching deal to extending your mortgage term Savings guides Getting into the savings habit Start a good habit and find ways to save money, build up your reserves and make sure you have something put away for a rainy day. Mortgage guides When can you remortgage? If your current deal is coming to an end soon, perhaps it’s time to think about remortgaging. Find out more about what to think about before switching lenders. Savings guides How to stay safe online Cybercrime statistics can be scary but a few simple actions can help to protect you. Follow the tips in our guide to help keep you safe and take control online. Savings guides How much of my salary should I save? Want to save money but don’t know where to start? We share our best money saving and budgeting tips to get you started.