Featured articles I am registering for a Buttle account but I have not received a verification email Card activation and management 2 Factor Authentication How to upload receipts to the Buttle UK Application Portal The prepaid card isn’t working or has been declined when I tried to make a purchase Registration I am registering for a Buttle account but I have not received a verification email Register Button is not working Email Domain name does not match 2 Factor Authentication 2FA Reset Mobile Phone Reset Your Password My Line Manager has not received a verification email from Buttle UK I am not receiving emails from Buttle UK Accessing the Online Form Problem accessing online application Unsupported Browser Hard Copy version of the Application form Print/Download a copy of the Application Form Account disabled/Cannot reset password Prepaid Cards Card activation and management Making foreign currency transactions with your card How do I suspend use of the prepaid card? How long do I have to spend funds on a prepaid card? The prepaid card isn’t working or has been declined when I tried to make a purchase An online retailer wants to save the card details for a subscription I am about to pay for - what should I do? How do I find the PIN for my prepaid card? The prepaid card is lost/stolen - what do I do? View all articles in “Prepaid Cards” Technical Assistance Console Report - Internet How do I register to make an application? How do I find the application form that I started/submitted? I am using the Buttle UK grants portal but there’s an error message Why is my online account disabled? I am the client’s new support worker and want to take over the management of their grant - what do I need to do? Eligibility Can I apply for a grant for myself/my family? I have overdue receipts from an older Buttle UK grant. Can I make another application? I’m working with several families right now. Can I make more than one application at the same time? Can I apply for a single item, e.g. a fridge or 1 laptop? Can I apply for mostly furniture or household items? How much is a ‘low income’? Do you fund therapy and counselling for children and young people? Why do you support social and emotional wellbeing? View all articles in “Eligibility” Completing the application form I cannot see all of the application form Applicant details not complete Applying directly as a parent My application has been deleted What information do I need to complete a Chances for Children application? How long will it take to complete a grant application? I don’t know how to answer a question on the application form Can I save a draft application and come back to it? View all articles in “Completing the application form” Grant payment How do you pay your grants? How long does it take to receive a grant? Returning receipts and refunds I have lost a receipt, is there another way for me to provide evidence of grant spend? How to upload receipts to the Buttle UK Application Portal Why can’t I upload receipts onto the Buttle applications portal? I purchased items online and so don’t have a receipt - what should I do? I have received an email reminding me to upload overdue receipts but I have not finished spending the grant I have purchased all the items that Buttle UK agreed to fund but there is still some money remaining - what should I do? What are the conditions upon which you would agree to award a grant? What are the conditions upon which you would agree to award a grant?