Home Returning receipts and refunds What are the conditions upon which you would agree to award a grant? What are the conditions upon which you would agree to award a grant? Buttle UK offers grants using the following standard terms and conditions: You agree, on behalf of your organisation, to manage the funds awarded and ensure that the spend is in accordance with the award email and these terms and conditions: 1. Treat the funds as restricted funding. 2. Not pass the funds on to the applicant/beneficiary in cash or in any other form. 3. If the grant is issued on a prepaid card, the card or card number will not be given to the family/ young person or a colleague. 4. Not spend the funds on gift cards or vouchers. 5. Act lawfully in carrying out the award and let us know promptly about any fraud, other impropriety, mismanagement or misuse in relation to the funds. 6. Only purchase items agreed in the award email and ensure value for money is achieved. Do not purchase any other items without seeking agreement from Buttle UK. 7. Upload receipts for all purchases to the Buttle UK system within 8 weeks of the grant payment being made. 8. Return any grant monies not spent within 8 weeks to Buttle UK without delay. 9. You acknowledge that Buttle UK are entitled to suspend or terminate the grant and/or require your organisation to repay all or any of the grant in any of the following situations. You must let us know if any of these situations have occurred or are likely to occur: - You fail to comply with any of these Terms and Conditions. - You do not respond to us or provide us with false or misleading information either on application or after award of the grant, act dishonestly or are under investigation by us, a regulatory body or the police. - If we consider that Buttle UK funds are at risk or your management of them will bring us into disrepute. - Your organisation enters into, or in our view are likely to enter into, administration, liquidation, receivership, or dissolution. - You receive any grant money incorrectly, either as a result of an administrative error or otherwise. We have no liability for any costs or consequences incurred by you or third parties that arise directly or indirectly from the grant award, nor from non-payment or withdrawal of the grant, save to the extent required by law. These terms and conditions will continue to apply until all receipts have been received and the application closed.