Apply Migrants and Refugees 1 . Eligibility 2 . What we fund 3 . Statistics 4 . Making the application Eligibility To be eligible, your organisation will: Have a mission, aims and objectives aligned with one of our four priority areas. This must be either the sole focus, or the majority of your work and we are unlikely to fund organisations with a broader remit. If your work is broader, please contact us before applying. Be registered as a UK charity, delivering work in the UK. Have an annual income between £150k and £1.5m (this applies to the most recent signed accounts and the two subsequent financial years - this would include draft figures and forecasts). See our FAQs for more detail. Have operated for at least a year and be able to provide a full year’s audited or independently examined accounts. We do not fund: Individuals The promotion of religion Capital appeals Academic research Charities working outside the UK For more information on the charities and work that we have funded in the past is available on this page. The A B Charitable Trust works with organisations that support communities who migrate to the UK, and people who are refugees or seeking asylum. We want our funding to support work that has a clear intent to bring about change, and to have an impact on the most marginalised and excluded communities facing intersecting disadvantages. This includes but is not limited to: work addressing destitution through provision of accommodation support, trafficking and exploitation, support for people held in immigration detention, and for groups facing discrimination for protected characteristics including racialised groups. We support a wide range of work, including delivering services, policy advocacy and influencing, campaigning, narrative change work, and community organising, or some combination of these approaches. We are particularly interested in the use of the law as a tool for social change, to address injustices at individual and systemic levels. We consider a range of factors when making decisions. This includes looking at the organisation as a whole, the approach it takes and how it operates, as well as the activities being delivered. Statistics Open programme application breakdown 2024/25 Total applications 0 Eligible applications 0 Grants awarded 0 Open programme grant amounts (per annum) Largest grant 2024/25 Average grant 2024/25 Smallest grant 2024/25 Information we require During the online application process, we ask you to provide: 1. Application form Basic information about your organisation, finances and your request for funding through a four-page application form (the questions can be reviewed in our guidance ). 2. Other documents a. A Word/ PDF document of 2 to 2 ½ pages to tell us about your work. As you can see on our website, A B Charitable Trust usually provides unrestricted funding. We are happy for you to draw on material you may already have when you prepare this document, for example the narrative in your annual accounts, the text on your website, or funding proposals you may have worked on recently. You don’t have to create something new for us. We find it useful to know your background; aims and objectives; activities and achievements; the individuals/ groups who you work with; as well as your organisation’s values and approach. If you are applying for unrestricted funding, there is no need to include a budget outlining how you propose to spend the grant. If you would like to apply for restricted/ project funding, please describe the project and provide a project budget. The budget can be in addition to your 2 page document. Please see our FAQ’s for further details on what we are likely to fund. If you have been invited to submit a proposal for a special initiative or anchor grant, you may exceed the two-page maximum for your proposal. Your Grants Manager can provide more details. Please note we only accept complete applications submitted through our online application form. Following your application, we will contact you directly if we require any further information, which may include a phone call as part of the assessment. b. Financial information including most recent audited/ examined financial accounts, current financial year figures, and projection (if your financial year is ending within the next 4 months). c. A copy of your governing document/ constitution, and your safeguarding policy. Making the application When you are ready to make an application, click on the apply button at the bottom of this page. The form does not have to be completed within one session. If you choose to ‘save and resume later’, then you will be provided with a link so you can return to the page within 30 days. The attachments will not be saved between sessions, and so should be attached in your final session, before you submit (and a copy saved locally). If you have any difficulties submitting large files, please contact us directly. We are proud to be working with 360Giving to share information about our grant making. Please note that if we offer you a grant, we will publish as open data information relating to the grant and your organisation. Decision making All grant decisions are made at the absolute discretion of the Trustee Directors. Our Grants Committee meets four times a year to assess and decide upon grant applications. The application deadlines for 2025/26 are as follows: Application deadlines for 2025/26 Decisions in January 2026 Decisions in April 2026 Decisions in July 2026 Decisions in October 2026