Why do we need your information? The Shears Foundation provides grants to registered charities. Part of our grant making process is to receive applications from such organisations. Whose data do we collect? The only data we hold are of those organisations who apply to the Shears Foundation for grants on behalf of their organisations. Applicants are asked to provide contact details. How do we collect your data? All the information we may hold about you has been provided directly to us by you, or by an organisation supporting you with your consent. The information is held on a secure database. What we do with your data and why? We will use the information you provide to contact you as part of the grant assessment process. Protecting your data We keep your data secure in our database with appropriate security mechanisms in place. Our policy is not to share your data with anyone else or any other organisation, unless it is with other grant making organisations pursuant to their interest in making a grant to your organisation. We will retain all data supplied to us for a minimum period of seven years, after which it is removed from the database. Our responsibilities The law requires us to tell you the basis on which we process your data. If the law requires your consent to process data in a certain way then we will obtain it before carrying out that activity. In other cases the law allows us to process data if is in our legitimate interest to do so, but only as long as we need to and your “interest or your fundamental rights and freedoms are not overriding”. In practice this means we check that we will not cause you harm by processing your data and that it is not overly intrusive. Your rights The law requires us to tell you that you have a variety of rights about the way we process your data such as: Where on specific occasions our use of your data requires consent you may withdraw this consent at any time. Where we rely on our legitimate interest to process data you may ask us to stop doing so. You may request a copy of the data we hold about you. If you are not satisfied with the way we have processed your data then you can complain to the Office of the Information Commissioner. The Shears Foundation is Registered with the Office of the Information Commissioner, reference number ZA495149 Contacting us If there are any questions about this privacy notice you can contact us at: The Shears Foundation, C/O The Community Foundation, Philanthropy House, Woodbine Road, Gosforth, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE3 1DD Partners Registered office Community Foundation Philanthropy House Woodbine Road Gosforth Newcastle upon Tyne NE3 1DD Copyright © 2023 Shears Foundation. Charity number: 1202285. | Privacy Policy Design by creative.coop