Frozen Light creates and extensively tours high quality multi sensory theatre for audiences with profound and multiple learning disabilities (PMLD). Youth Leads UK is an entirely youth-led charity. They are transforming youth representation and leadership for working class young people aged 14-25 in Greater Manchester. They do this through peer-led programmes of volunteering, social action projects, and learning experiences, and by amplifying the voice of young people with key decision makers. Haemochromatosis UK support over 14,000 families every year to live well with iron overload disorder. It’s the UK’s most common genetic condition, directly affecting over 380,000 people. Although it is commonplace, the condition is significantly under-diagnosed in the UK. EMERGE 3RS mission is to create a society where everyone can have their resource needs met in a way that is environmentally sustainable, socially inclusive and economically responsible. They run FareShare Greater Manchester which leads the fight against food poverty by minimising food waste. Jennyruth Workshops offers a fun and vibrant workplace experience for adults who have learning disabilities. With tailored support from staff and volunteers, our team of ‘workers’ are involved in all aspects of the business, the focus of which is the production of a range of high quality, hand-crafted products. Abram Wilson runs an innovative and award-winning schools programme called Future Sound. Our workshops focus on skills that students simply aren’t offered as part of their in-school music curriculum, including composition, songwriting, performance skills, recording music and building a career in the music industry. Water Harvest works with rural communities to help them secure a sustainable source of clean water all year round. Having worked in northwest India we’re now excitingly expanding in sub-Saharan Africa. Each year West End Refugee Service welcomes, helps and empowers over 500 men and women who have fled persecution and supports their integration into the wider community. Based in Yorkshire, Open Country is a charity dedicated to empowering individuals with disabilities or mental health conditions to access and enjoy the countryside. Our mission is to break down barriers and ensure that everyone, regardless of ability, can experience the wonders of nature. Am I eligible for funding? How to apply for funding Partners Registered office Community Foundation Philanthropy House Woodbine Road Gosforth Newcastle upon Tyne NE3 1DD Copyright © 2023 Shears Foundation. Charity number: 1202285. | Privacy Policy Design by creative.coop