0117 959 6496 grants@jamestudor.org.uk Cookies COOKIE POLICY James Tudor Foundation Cookie Policy We and our trusted partners use cookies and other technologies in our related services, including when you visit our Site or access our services. A "cookie" is a small piece of information that a website assigns to your device while you are viewing a website. Cookies are very helpful and can be used for various purposes. These purposes include allowing you to navigate between pages efficiently, enabling automatic activation of certain features, remembering your preferences, and making the interaction between you and our Services quicker and easier. Cookies are also used to help ensure that the advertisements you see are relevant to you and your interests and to compile statistical data on your use of our Services. The Site uses the following types of cookies: a. 'session cookies' which are stored only temporarily during a browsing session in order to allow normal use of the system and are deleted from your device when the browser is closed; b. 'persistent cookies' which are read only by the Site, saved on your computer for a fixed period and are not deleted when the browser is closed. Such cookies are used where we need to know who you are for repeat visits, for example to allow us to store your preferences for the next sign-in; c. 'third-party cookies' which are set by other online services who run content on the page you are viewing, for example by third-party analytics companies who monitor and analyse our web access. Cookies do not contain any information that personally identifies you, but Personal Information that we store about you may be linked, by us, to the information stored in and obtained from cookies. You may remove the cookies by following the instructions of your device preferences; however, if you choose to disable cookies, some features of our Site may not operate properly and your online experience may be limited. We also use a tool called “Google Analytics” to collect information about your use of the Site. Google Analytics collects information such as how often users access the Site, which pages they visit, when they do so, etc. We use the information we obtain from Google Analytics only to improve our Site and services. Google Analytics collects the IP address assigned to you on the date you visit sites, rather than your name or other identifying information. We do not combine the information collected through the use of Google Analytics with personally identifiable information. Google’s ability to use and share information collected by Google Analytics about your visits to this Site is restricted by the Google Analytics Terms of Use and the Google Privacy Policy . The James Tudor Foundation. Charity No. 1105916. The Foundation is a company limited by guarantee, registered in England & Wales; no. 5178537 Accessibility | Privacy | Cookies | Sitemap Website Design by Website Sorted