Home About Work With Us Work With Us Who We Help How We’ve Helped Open Grants Data Open Grants Data Partnerships Contact APPLY FOR HELP Apply for a Grant We provide financial support when something’s happened that you couldn’t have expected. If this is you and you’ve worked in the education of under 19s for at least five years, we may be able to help. Ready to apply? Use the Apply Now button below to go to Lightning Reach and complete your online application. Need more information first? Read the guidance below and get in touch if you have any questions. TST is currently closed to new applications and will reopen on Monday 1st September. You can start your search for financial support through Lightning Reach but new applications to Teaching Staff Trust are frozen until 1st September. 1. Use the Apply Online button to complete your application online through our trusted partner Lightning or get in touch if you need help to complete the application. Ring on 01322 293822 or email enquiries@teachingstafftrust.org.uk. 2. You will need to provide proof of your eligible employment and financial position. It’s important that you tell us what has happened to you and why you need financial support. We also ask for medical evidence if you’re applying because you’re ill or have disabilities and for bills, invoices and quotations if you’re applying for help with paying for any of these. 3. You can upload these documents to Lightning Reach, and quickly and securely connect your household bank accounts to verify your identity. Connecting your accounts helps us to review your situation more quickly and give you a decision sooner. If you don’t have online banking, instead of connecting them, you can supply your most recent monthly statement for all accounts in your household by uploading PDFs. We cannot assess your application until you provide your documents. 4. If you apply online and submit your application we’ll review it within five working days and contact you. 5. We will process your application. This means checking that you are eligible, looking at both your circumstances and your financial situation and then considering whether we can support you in the way you’ve asked. We may need to ask you for further information – please respond as quickly as possible a so that we can make a decision for you. 6. Once we have everything we will usually be able to let you know our decision within three to four weeks. 7. We will usually arrange for our payment to go directly to a supplier or service provider. We do make payments direct to applicants when it’s appropriate and we ask you to provide receipts for the goods or services supplied. 8. Our financial support is there to relieve the impact of something you couldn’t have expected to happen and it is a one off payment or package of support. We usually do not accept repeat applications unless there has been a serious change or deterioration in circumstances. Download application form Download the appropriate document below to help with your application.