Home About Work With Us Work With Us Who We Help How We’ve Helped Open Grants Data Open Grants Data Partnerships Contact APPLY FOR HELP Teaching Staff Trust is a charity that provides hardship grants to help people through times of financial trouble. If you work or have worked in the education of under 19s for at least 5 years and need help, just ask. We’re proud to approve 9 out of 10 grant applications. We help a wide range of professions in the education sector Teachers Lunch Supervisors Nursery Workers Teaching Assistants Retired school workers Access a broad range of financial support We partner with Lightning Reach, a free online portal that helps you find and apply for financial support all in one place, quickly and safely. The secure Lightning Reach portal allows you to find and apply for support from multiple providers, quickly and easily. It has a huge range of support that can help you, including help with energy bills, fuel vouchers, home efficiency upgrades and energy advice. Our payments can be used to help you with your bills, household costs, travel or other essentials that you’ve incurred as a result of something happening that you couldn’t have expected. They are not loans, you don’t have to pay us back and it costs you nothing to apply to us. “When I was ill, I had to give up my position as a teaching assistant. TST supported me so I could get back on track” Karen – Former Teaching Assistant “I spent so much looking after myself and my daughter I ran out of money for the essentials. TST gave me the chance to move closer to family” Tom – Teacher “When a Housing Association found me a home near work, TST helped me to pay my first month’s rent and gave me money for carpets and furniture.” Angie – Nursery Practitioner We’re here to help Our payments can help to relieve the financial impact in very difficult times: Debt relief or financial support: When someone close to you dies When you’re ill or been injured If your relationship breaks down When you suddenly have to move