Home About Work With Us Work With Us Who We Help How We’ve Helped Open Grants Data Open Grants Data Partnerships Contact APPLY FOR HELP Cookie Policy Cookies : usage on this website What is a cookie? “Most websites you visit will use cookies in order to improve your user experience by enabling that website to ‘remember’ you, either for the duration of your visit (using a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies do lots of different jobs, like letting you navigate between pages efficiently, storing your preferences, and generally improving your experience of a website. Cookies make the interaction between you and the website faster and easier. If a website doesn’t use cookies, it will think you are a new visitor every time you move to a new page on the site – for example, when you enter your login details and move to another page it won’t recognise you and it won’t be able to keep you logged in.” The above is taken from the BBC website. How we use cookies Google Analytics are installed on this website; Google Analytics uses cookies to collect anonymous visitor statistics – see below for more detailed information. Cookies in detail Google Analytics is a widely used tool to compile anonymous visitor statistics; such as how many people have visited a website, what type of technology they are using (e.g Mac or Windows), how long they spend on the site, what pages they look at etc. This information helps website owners to continuously improve site content and visitor experience. “Like many services, Google Analytics uses first-party cookies to report on visitor interactions. These cookies are used to store non-personally identifiable information, such as what time the current visit occurred, whether the visitor has been to the site before, and what site referred the visitor to the web page. Browsers do not share first-party cookies across domains.” The above is taken from Google’s website. To provide website visitors more choice on how data is collected by Google Analytics, Google have developed the Google Analytics Opt Out Browser Add-on . This add-on communicates with Google Analytics to indicate that information about your website visits should not be sent to Google Analytics. Allowing us to use cookies If the settings on your software that you are using to view this website (your browser) are adjusted to accept cookies we take this, and your continued use of our website, to mean that you consent to the use of cookies on this site (as described above). Should you wish to remove or not use cookies from our site you can learn how to do so at www.aboutcookies.org or www.allaboutcookies.org . More information on cookies The website www.aboutcookies.org contains comprehensive information on cookies and explains how to control and delete cookies. Visit the cookie information section on the BBC website for further information on types of cookie and how to manage cookies. More information on cookies at www.allaboutcookies.org .