Home About Work With Us Work With Us Who We Help How We’ve Helped Open Grants Data Open Grants Data Partnerships Contact APPLY FOR HELP Privacy Policy Home Privacy Policy The Teaching Staff Trust Privacy Policy covers the way in which we use and disclose personal information that applicants, employees, trustees and donors may provide us with. Personal information includes any details that identifies you personally, such as your name, address, email address, internet protocol address or telephone number. Under the Data Protection Act 2018 and the General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR), The Teaching Staff Trust is defined as the Data Controller and therefore has a legal duty to protect any information we collect from you. We use appropriate technologies to safeguard your details and keep to strict security standards to prevent unauthorised access to it. The Teaching Staff Trust (TST) recognises that your privacy is very important and so we want you to be confident with the way we handle your personal information. We have outlined below how TST collects, uses, discloses, and protects this information. How we collect information TST receives and stores personal information provided by applicants, employees, trustees and donors supplied to us in writing by post or email, via social media, via the telephone or on our website(s) for a range of reasons, including: When applying, enquiring, or registering for help While in employment or applying for employment While volunteering or applying to volunteer as a trustee When donating money to TST When fundraising for TST When participating in research to support TST We use some third parties to provide services for us. We have contracts in place with these data processors. This means that they cannot do anything with your personal information unless we have instructed them to do it. They will hold it securely and retain it for the period we instruct. For a list of these third parties and for information about how to obtain their privacy policies please contact the Data Protection Officer using the contact information at the bottom of this statement. In order to maximise our resources and to ensure that we appropriately tailor our communications to individuals, we undertake in-house research to gather information about individuals from publicly available sources. This research helps us to appropriately tailor our communications to individuals and to identify individuals that may have an affinity with our cause but with whom we are not already in touch. We may also carry out wealth screening to fast-track the research using trusted third-part agencies, and to carry out due diligence on donors to comply with our anti-money laundering obligations. How we use information We may use the information we collect from you in any of the following ways: We principally collect personal information, including medical and financial information, so that we can provide you with the support you have requested or to fulfil individual employment contracts with our employees or agreements with trustees and to further our charitable aims, including for fundraising activities. We may use personal information such as your address, email address and telephone/mobile phone number to communicate with you, for example to provide information relating to our work or new developments or for customer satisfaction queries. Contact details, including National Insurance numbers, will be used for security reasons so that we can verify your identity. We may also use your personal information for internal administration, analyses and operational/service reviews. We may conduct profiling, prospect research and wealth screening on current or prospective supporters using data we already hold and information collected from publicly available sources. You can read more under the section “Understanding current and potential supporters” below. Legal basis for processing The legal basis we use to process your personal data may differ for each processing activity. The personal information that we collect so that we can provide you with our help and support and is processed with your consent. We use the separate condition of explicit consent to process special category data. Special category data is more sensitive date, such as information about your health. If we need to contact other agencies in order to provide you with services or products, we shall always gain your consent before sharing your personal data with this third party. Agreements with trusteess are processed under Legitimate Interest. Personal data processed in the course of a fundraising activity that individuals have registered for, will be processed under Legitimate Interest. All electronic direct marketing communications will require your consent. If you have provided consent in the past we will honour your original preference unless you specifically tell us otherwise. Any future consent boxes not ticked will not change your original consent to marketing. We will remind you of this in the privacy notice served at the point of data collection in the future. The personal information that we collect to fulfil individual employment contracts with our employees is processed under contract. The personal information of applicants is processed under Legitimate Interest. Profiling, prospect research and wealth screening are conducted under the lawful basis of legitimate interest. Understanding current and potential supporters TST may conduct a range of analysis on current and potential supporters in order to understand those individuals better, and to use its resources more effectively and efficiently. The analysis that TST may undertake can be summarised as: Profiling. This involves gathering information about an individual or group of individual and analysing their characteristics or behaviour patterns in order to place them in a certain category or group, and/or to make predictions or assessments about them. Profiling enables us to understand the background of people who support us and use our services and helps us to do things like ensure communications are relevant and timely, determine whether and in what ways you might be interested in getting involved in our fundraising activities and finding new potential supporters like you and invite them to become involved in supporting our cause. Prospect research and wealth screening. We, like many other charities, may carry out research in order to engage with suitable high value donors. This helps us identify people who have an interest in our cause and could potentially make a substantial donation. We process information on existing and potential high value donors to help us support more people in need. We can achieve this aim by increasing the number of people we engage with who have the capacity to give a significant donation. Researching potential high value donors enables us to focus our fundraising resources whilst ensuring that our requests for support are tailored to each individual. Our personalised approach helps us to provide the best possible donor experience that is aligned with an individuals’ interests and capacity to give. In all cases we may use publicly available resources to find out things about you or to add to the information we already have. We may also use software, tools and predictive analysis to understand the information and create profiles of supporters. Sources and tools we use may include Experian and its Mosiac tool, Companies House, the (public) Electoral Roll, company websites, “rich lists”, social networks like Linkedin, political and property registers, YouGov and news archives. These sources may tell us things like your age, the prices of properties in the vicinity of your address and average earnings where you live, your job, directorships, your financial circumstances, networks, any previous donations you have made, your philanthropic interests (trusteeships and/or support to other charities), and your estimated wealth. Some of this information will remain undocumented but will be discussed with colleagues, and some of it will be stored in our systems. In all cases, please be assured that your information is only made available to those colleagues with a need to access it and we apply stringent security protocols to protect it. How long we keep your data for We keep your personal information in line with our data retention policy. In certain circumstances we have a statutory obligation to keep your personal information for a set period of time for example financial information (normally six to seven years) for financial auditing purposes. Disclosure of information TST may share personal information, as necessary, withrelevant third parties so that we can provide the support you have asked for, or to process your donations, or to carry out any other obligations arising from any contract or agreement entered into between you and TST. TST may also disclose personal information to other employees and/or volunteers including TST Trustees in the course of providing you with our services. TST does not permit these parties to use such information for any other purpose than to perform the services they have been instructed to provide by us. We may also need to disclose your information if required to do so by law. How your data is shared to prevent fraud Data exchange across and between organisations plays a crucial role in the prevention of fraud in both the public and private sectors. When you make an application with us, your personal data may be passed on to the Cabinet Office (National Fraud Initiative) and other third parties for this purpose. Your personal data is exchanged securely with protective markings. Public or private organisations with whom we may share data, observe high-security standard protocols, and this includes the requirement that data is kept within encrypted/ password protected systems, and with access restricted to authorised staff only. International transfers Ordinarily we do not transfer your personal data outside the EEA. If we, or one of our suppliers, do make such a transfer, we will, if appropriate, put a contract in place to ensure your information is protected. Storage and security of personal information TST will use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that you provide personal information in a secure and confidential environment and when the information is no longer needed it will be destroyed or permanently rendered anonymous. Our commitment to data security To prevent unauthorised access, maintain data accuracy, and ensure the correct use of information, we have put in place appropriate physical, electronic, organisational and managerial procedures to safeguard and secure the information we collect. Controlling your personal information We only use your personal information for direct marketing purposes if we are allowed to do this by law or if we have your consent. If you have previously agreed to us using your personal information for direct marketing purposes we will honour your preferences but you are free to change your mind at any time by: Emailing enquiries@teachingstafftrust.org.uk Calling us on 01322 293822 Right of access to your information: If you require access to the personal data we hold about you then please write to us or email us at the addresses below or call us on the number below. Right to rectify your information: If you believe that the information we hold about you is incorrect then please write to us or email us at the addresses below or call us on the number below. Right to erase your information: If you do not want TST to hold your personal data any longer then please write to us or email us at the addresses below or call us on the number below. Right to restriction of processing: If you believe that your personal data is inaccurate, or that TST is processing your personal data unlawfully but you do not want your personal data erased and you wish to restrict the processing of your personal data, then please write to us or email us at the addresses below or call us on the number below. Right to object: If you believe that there are no legitimate grounds for processing your data or that you no longer wish to receive marketing communications, then please write to us or email us at the addresses below or call us on the number below. Complaints If you wish to complain to TST then please write to us or email us at the addresses below or call us on the number below. If you are still not satisfied with the way your complaint was handled, you can refer your complaint to UK Information Commissioner’s Office https://ico.org.uk/concerns/ Contact details The Data Protection Officer The Teaching Staff Trust, 2 Nelson Street, King’s Lynn, PE30 5DY enquiries@teachingstafftrust.org.uk 01322 293822 Changes to this privacy notice We keep our privacy notice under regular review. This privacy notice was last updated on 21/02/2024 .