What we fund We support a wide range of charities that make a positive difference, working in different sectors in the UK. These include welfare, youth, community, environment, education, health, arts, heritage and faith. Organisations we have funded CARM Caring Together on Romney Marsh CARM Caring Together on Romney Marsh Fatima Women’s Association Supporting global majority women in Oldham. Fatima Women’s Association Supporting global majority women in Oldham. Get Further Free tuition to young people from disadvantaged backgrounds who failed their maths and English GCSEs first time around. Get Further Free tuition to young people from disadvantaged backgrounds who failed their maths and English GCSEs first time around. We fund small local organisations and large national institutions. Our grants range from £1,000 to several million pounds, depending on each charity’s size and scope of work. Our grants can be for your organisation’s running costs, for a specific activity or for capital projects. We are flexible and fund what charities need the most. If you’re new to fundraising or to us, you may find these examples of what we’ve funded helpful to see if we’re a good fit. We list every grant we make here, each quarter, if you want to see who else we’ve funded like you. We also publish our grants to 360Giving.org which lets you search by location, charities and funders. Grants and Pledges made from April 2025 to June 2025. Download our most recent grants and pledges list (pdf 324 KB) What type of grants do we make? Capital projects Capital means building works or repairs, or equipment that's necessary to your organisation's work. Capital projects Capital means building works or repairs, or equipment that's necessary to your organisation's work. Operating/Core costs Operating/Core cost grants are made towards the general costs of running your organisation. Operating/Core costs Operating/Core cost grants are made towards the general costs of running your organisation. Projects/specific activity These grants are for a specific project or area of your work. It will have a defined scope of work and timescale. Projects/specific activity These grants are for a specific project or area of your work. It will have a defined scope of work and timescale. Try our eligibility quiz See if you're a good fit for our funding. If you still have questions, please get in touch.