How to apply We respect our applicants and want to make applying to us as easy and straightforward as possible. We hope you find this section helpful. Please follow these simple steps: Take our eligibility quiz to check that your organisation and its work is a good match with our funding. Read our application guidelines thoroughly and write your application. Save your proposal as a PDF or Word document. Or, if you wish to apply for a grant of £100,000 or above, read the Major Grant guidance . Have a copy of your organisation’s latest annual return or independently examined or audited accounts saved to your computer. To apply for a Regular Grant, go to our Grants Portal to create a new account and begin a new application. You can also use the same link to access your draft applications. You will be asked to fill in your contact details and information about your organisation, including demographic information about your beneficiaries and safeguarding practices. You will be asked to upload your application proposal and annual accounts/return. If you need any help with using our Grants Portal, please refer to this useful guide. You will immediately receive an email confirming that we have received your application. If you wish to send your application to us in the post, please see our postal application form . Pages in this section Application guidelines We are committed to supporting great charities doing important work, and appreciate the time and effort that fundraising takes. We've created our guidelines to be simple, clear and efficient to help you make your best case to us. Application guidelines We are committed to supporting great charities doing important work, and appreciate the time and effort that fundraising takes. We've created our guidelines to be simple, clear and efficient to help you make your best case to us. Using our online grants system If you need help using our online grants portal, please visit the link below. Using our online grants system If you need help using our online grants portal, please visit the link below. Weston Charter The Weston Charter outlines our commitment to you. Weston Charter The Weston Charter outlines our commitment to you. Application FAQs We hope these frequently asked questions answer any queries you may have. If not, please contact us. Application FAQs We hope these frequently asked questions answer any queries you may have. If not, please contact us.