For grant applicants Applying to the Foundation is simple and straightforward. This section tells you everything you need to know about our application process, what to include in your application and how to submit it to us. We're excited to hear from you! Let's get started! We suggest you read the following: Eligibility quiz To find out if our funding is a good match for your organisation, please take our quick eligibility quiz. Eligibility quiz To find out if our funding is a good match for your organisation, please take our quick eligibility quiz. How to apply We respect our applicants and want to make applying to us as easy and straightforward as possible. We hope you find this section helpful. How to apply We respect our applicants and want to make applying to us as easy and straightforward as possible. We hope you find this section helpful. Application guidelines We are committed to supporting great charities doing important work, and appreciate the time and effort that fundraising takes. We've created our guidelines to be simple, clear and efficient to help you make your best case to us. Application guidelines We are committed to supporting great charities doing important work, and appreciate the time and effort that fundraising takes. We've created our guidelines to be simple, clear and efficient to help you make your best case to us. Using our online grants system If you need help using our online grants portal, please visit the link below. Using our online grants system If you need help using our online grants portal, please visit the link below. Weston Charter The Weston Charter outlines our commitment to you. Weston Charter The Weston Charter outlines our commitment to you. Application FAQs We hope these frequently asked questions answer any queries you may have. If not, please contact us. Application FAQs We hope these frequently asked questions answer any queries you may have. If not, please contact us. Pages in this section Eligibility quiz To find out if our funding is a good match for your organisation, please take our quick eligibility quiz. Eligibility quiz To find out if our funding is a good match for your organisation, please take our quick eligibility quiz. How to apply We respect our applicants and want to make applying to us as easy and straightforward as possible. We hope you find this section helpful. How to apply We respect our applicants and want to make applying to us as easy and straightforward as possible. We hope you find this section helpful. Major Grants Please read this section if you wish to apply for £100,000 and over (i.e. a major grant) Major Grants Please read this section if you wish to apply for £100,000 and over (i.e. a major grant)