Weston Charter The Weston Charter outlines our commitment to you. We understand that fundraising is not easy. Many of our staff and Trustees have fundraising experience which is why we have created the Weston Charter which sets out our commitment to you. We are proud of the care we take in considering applications. We thought you’d like to know the principles we work by so, whether your application is successful or not, you can be confident in our approach and the thought we give to all decisions. Our commitment to you We acknowledge every application, so you know we have received it. We notify every applicant of the outcome of their application. Every eligible application is considered by at least one Trustee. We consider every application carefully, but it’s not possible to guarantee that funding will be available. Sometimes the Trustees have to decline good projects because it’s not possible to support everything. We are open and transparent. All our grants have been listed for decades in our annual reports. We also post them on 360Giving . We are committed to fairness and accessibility for all, especially those charities supporting the marginalised and disadvantaged. Our Trustees will note any amount you may request, but they do not work on an ‘all or nothing’ basis. They may provide support at a different level to that requested. We respect your time and resources. We will only request more information if it is important for your application. We will ensure we have everything we need, so you can be confident you have done all you can to make your case. We balance our expenditure carefully throughout the year. This means that your application will have the same opportunity, no matter when you apply. When we decide to make a grant, we make the payment swiftly. This helps your charity with cash flow and planning. If we make a pledge, we allow up to two years for you to find the necessary additional funds. We keep reporting guidelines clear and uncomplicated. We want to keep up to date with your work, while minimising administration for your charity. Related Files Weston Charter 2022 See if your organisation is eligible for our funding