Organisations we have funded We hope you enjoy these case studies of organisations we've recently funded. They help to convey the types of organisations and work we fund and what we look for in applications. Get Further Free tuition to young people from disadvantaged backgrounds who failed their maths and English GCSEs first time around. Get Further Free tuition to young people from disadvantaged backgrounds who failed their maths and English GCSEs first time around. The Conservation Volunteers Connecting people and green spaces to deliver lasting outcomes since 1959. The Conservation Volunteers Connecting people and green spaces to deliver lasting outcomes since 1959. CARM Caring Together on Romney Marsh CARM Caring Together on Romney Marsh Burnturk & Kettlehill Community Trust Capital improvements benefitting two rural Scottish communities. Burnturk & Kettlehill Community Trust Capital improvements benefitting two rural Scottish communities. Orchestras Live Making orchestral music relevant for everyone, regardless of age, location or background. Orchestras Live Making orchestral music relevant for everyone, regardless of age, location or background. Open Trail Encouraging disadvantaged young people in Worcestershire and the West Midlands to achieve more than they believe is possible. Open Trail Encouraging disadvantaged young people in Worcestershire and the West Midlands to achieve more than they believe is possible. PCrefurb Bridging the digital divide since 2018. PCrefurb Bridging the digital divide since 2018. Chilli Studios An inclusive community space where creativity is a tool to influence positive change in people's mental wellbeing. Chilli Studios An inclusive community space where creativity is a tool to influence positive change in people's mental wellbeing. Folkestone Leas Lift Company Heritage restoration project supporting local tourism and economic regeneration. Folkestone Leas Lift Company Heritage restoration project supporting local tourism and economic regeneration. Rhondda Netball Foundation Creating opportunities for women and girls to participate in sport, to support their mental health and improve their physical wellbeing. Rhondda Netball Foundation Creating opportunities for women and girls to participate in sport, to support their mental health and improve their physical wellbeing. Glasgow Wood Reusing waste wood and timber to affect positive environmental and social change. Glasgow Wood Reusing waste wood and timber to affect positive environmental and social change. Open House Open House has played a key role in the cultural and economic transformation of post-Troubles Belfast for over 25 years. Open House Open House has played a key role in the cultural and economic transformation of post-Troubles Belfast for over 25 years. Let us help you make a difference