Top tips for grant reports We have compiled our advice for reporting on your grant into handy top tips. Tell us the following in simple bullet points for ALL grants: Were you able to do the work you told us about in your funding application? Summarise the progress your organisation has made towards achieving its objectives and targets. If you didn’t achieve what you had hoped to, what contributed to this? We want to learn from your grant as much as you do! What has your organisation learned from the past year? Examples may be that demand has become too much for current staffing levels or you found a new way to fundraise. How many people has your organisation worked with in the past year? This can be your calendar or financial year – whichever you use to collect and monitor data. Have there been any significant changes in your organisation or to its work in the past year? This could be a change in leadership, location or issues your beneficiaries are facing. What is your organisation especially proud of as a result of its work in the past year? Project specific grants We also want to know the following at the end of your capital project or specific activity: What was the final cost of the project? Were there any changes to the original cost and/or timetable? Has the project achieved what it set out to do? What NOT to include If there is anything specific that you want to ask us, please don’t include this in your grant report in case we miss it! This includes: a request to roll over an underspend a request to extend a grant period a request for extra funding If you have a specific question please email us at admin@garfieldweston.org and we will reply. Length Please keep your report brief – aim for around two sides of A4! We want you to spend your time on giving us information we will actually use. If we have any questions, we will contact you. Feel free to add any pictures to your report to help show the impact of your work. Download our Top tips for grant reports 2022 Share this....