Cookies on this website We've put some small files called cookies on your device to make our site work. We’d also like to use analytics cookies. These send information about how our site is used to a service called Google Analytics. We use this information to improve our site. Let us know if this is OK. We’ll use a cookie to save your choice. You can read more about our cookies here before you choose . Funding Our rolling grants programmes are currently closed to new applications. We will open a new funding programme to applications in autumn 2025. Our new funding policy, Standing with Londoners, was announced in March 2025. Standing with Londoners, our new funding policy Having committed exceptional levels of funding to London’s charitable sector until 2026, we closed our rolling grants programmes to new applications in October 2024. This has allowed us to manage our existing grants and pre-closure applications, while reviewing and developing our new funding policy. Our new ten-year funding policy, Standing with Londoners, was announced in March 2025. We aim to open a new funding programme in autumn 2025. Recent funding programmes We closed our rolling grants programmes to new applications in October 2024. To view these programmes and to see the processes for initial applications and continuation funding, please see our closed funding programmes. Other available funding opportunities Social investment A £22 million fund to support charitable organisations that want to access funding through social investment. It aims to achieve a positive financial return and demonstrable social benefit. Funder collaborations In addition to our traditional grant making, we have a number of strategic initiatives and collaborations that support larger organisations and aim to strengthen the sector. These include collaborative funding programmes, research, feasibility studies and conferences, and are often undertaken in partnership with other bodies and organisations. This funding is undertaken by invitation and partnership working, and is not open to applications. Funding opportunities from the City of London Corporation Our trustee, the City of London Corporation , has a strong track record of charitable giving over many centuries. The Central Funding and Charity Management Team are responsible for managing the grant-making within the City Corporation. They work closely with our funding team, ensuring we meet the highest standards in grant-making. The Central Funding and Charity Management Team manages the following grant streams: ﻿﻿Community Infrastructure Levy Neighbourhood Fund Community Infrastructure Levy Neighbourhood Fund Central Grants Programme Stronger communities Enjoying green spaces and the natural environment Inspiring London through culture The City Corporation is also responsible for a number of other grant-giving charities as well as making other grants available to individuals and organisations. Find out more about the City Corporation’s work with the community .