Cookies on this website We've put some small files called cookies on your device to make our site work. We’d also like to use analytics cookies. These send information about how our site is used to a service called Google Analytics. We use this information to improve our site. Let us know if this is OK. We’ll use a cookie to save your choice. You can read more about our cookies here before you choose . About City Bridge Foundation City Bridge Foundation is a world class bridge owner and London’s biggest independent charity funder Our charity, City Bridge Foundation, was set up around 900 years ago for the maintenance of the old London Bridge. Through bridge tolls, rents, bequests and charitable donations, along with sensible investment and management, the fund has grown over the years. Our primary aim remains to maintain our five bridges – Tower, London, Southwark, Millennium and Blackfriars bridges – but since 1995 we have also used surplus funds to award grants to charitable organisations across Greater London. Since 1995, we have awarded over £840 million to charitable organisations working to tackle inequality and injustice across London. Our sole trustee is the City of London Corporation – the governing body for the Square Mile. Members of the Court of Common Council – the City Corporation’s primary decision-making body – form the City Bridge Foundation Board and associated committees which govern our activities. Co-opted Members from outside City Corporation sit alongside them. Recent changes City Bridge Foundation is the working name of the historic Bridge House Estates. From 1995 to September 2023 our charity funding team was known as City Bridge Trust. In September 2023, our bridges and charity funding teams were brought together under a new name – City Bridge Foundation. In March 2024, following four years of considerable change for the charity, and the wider world, we published an updated version of our 25-year strategy, Bridging London 2020 — 2045. Closure of our rolling grants programmes to new applications and the launch of a new funding policy Having committed exceptional levels of funding to London’s charitable sector until 2026, a decision was taken to close our rolling grant programmes to new applications in October 2024. This has allowed us to manage our existing grants and pre-closure applications, while reviewing and developing our new funding policy. Our new ten-year funding policy, Standing with Londoners, was launched in March 2025. Our vision For London and Londoners to be truly connected Our outcomes We maintain and promote world-class bridges We develop and deliver world-class charitable funding We embed and encourage world-class responsible business practices Our cross-cutting strategic ambitions Our cross-cutting strategic ambitions of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion and Climate Action are fundamental to everything we do. Our values We stand for London and Londoners in everything we do ( Service ) We connect to learn and achieve more together ( Collaboration ) We work towards equity, diversity and inclusion for all ( Inclusion ) We embrace new ways to drive positive change ( Innovation ) We challenge ourselves to deliver the best for our communities ( Ambition ) What we do Connecting communities and building partnerships for a fairer London. Learn more about: Our people Our organisation is made up of an incredibly diverse group of people, doing very different jobs – from a Welcome Host at Tower Bridge, to a Data Analyst in our Funding Team. Our history City Bridge Foundation has been connecting London for more than 900 years Our governance The City of London Corporation is the sole trustee of our charity. Find out more about our diverse functions, board and governance. Our investments The property, financial and social investments of City Bridge Foundation Working for us Find out what it’s like to work here, what types of opportunities we have on offer and what you can receive in return. Equity, Diversity and Inclusion We are committed to being a truly inclusive, anti-racist organisation with a robust, progressive and proactive Equity, Diversity and Inclusion programme. Climate action and sustainability At City Bridge Foundation we are passionate about tackling the climate emergency. We embed climate action and sustainability across all of our work, including bridge management, funding and investments. Strategies