Cookies on this website We've put some small files called cookies on your device to make our site work. We’d also like to use analytics cookies. These send information about how our site is used to a service called Google Analytics. We use this information to improve our site. Let us know if this is OK. We’ll use a cookie to save your choice. You can read more about our cookies here before you choose . Information for current grant holders Our rolling grants programmes are closed to new applications. Information on this page is designed to help grant holders who successfully applied to our previous funding programmes. We will open a new funding programme to applications in autumn 2025. Supporting you to succeed What’s on this page: Closed funding programmes For information on funding programmes that are no longer open to new applications, please see Closed funding programmes . Managing your grant How to claim your grant payment Login to our online grants portal to: Manage and view details of your grant Submit reports and accounts Grant reporting: guidance on our impact and learning processes Find out what to expect from our grant reporting and learning processes, including: annual impact and learning reports learning visits sharing your feedback More opportunities with Funder Plus We offer a range of free support and services to increase funded organisations’ capacity, resilience and sustainability. Our approach to funding Learn more about how we work and what to expect if you applied to a recent funding programme. This includes our approach to revenue, capital and core costs, the amounts we can give, and timescales Impact and learning Learn more about our approach to impact and learning, including: data and insights from our work research we’ve commissioned and key publications from work we fund Reapplication criteria Our rolling grants programmes closed to new applications and reapplications in October 2024. If your organisation had received less than five years of continuous funding from City Bridge Foundation, you may have been eligible for an additional one-off core grant for one year of funding. If your organisation was eligible, you will have received an invitation to apply. Acknowledging our funding and use of the City Bridge Foundation logo Our Communications Toolkit for Partners is designed to help you promote your partnership with City Bridge Foundation. It’s guidance can be used by the charities we fund, and the partner organisations we work with to support Londoners. Main image credit: https://ukblacktech.com/