Cookies on this website We've put some small files called cookies on your device to make our site work. We’d also like to use analytics cookies. These send information about how our site is used to a service called Google Analytics. We use this information to improve our site. Let us know if this is OK. We’ll use a cookie to save your choice. You can read more about our cookies here before you choose . Financial support City Bridge Foundation works to reduce inequality and grow stronger, more resilient and thriving communities across Greater London We are London’s largest independent charitable funder, and our vision is for London to be a city where all individuals and communities can thrive, especially those experiencing disadvantage and marginalisation. Our mission is to reduce inequality and grow more cohesive communities for a London that serves everyone. Financial support available to London’s communities: Our funding and grant making Once the charity has met its responsibilities of managing and protecting the five bridges , we are able to distribute the surplus income for charitable purposes benefiting the people of Greater London. Since 1995, we have awarded over £840 million to charitable organisations working to tackle inequality and injustice across London. In October 2024, having committed exceptional levels of funding to London’s charitable sector until 2026, we closed our rolling grants programmes to new applications. This break has allowed us to develop a new funding policy, to serve London and Londoners into the future. Our new ten-year funding policy, Standing with Londoners was announced in March 2025. The new policy focuses on changing the systems that keep people marginalised, while also addressing the issues communities face right now. We aim to launch the first of our new funding programmes in autumn 2025. Funder collaborations In addition to our traditional grant making, we have a number of strategic initiatives and collaborations that support larger organisations and aim to strengthen the sector. These include collaborative funding programmes, research, feasibility studies and conferences, and are often undertaken in partnership with other bodies and organisations. Grants awarded We publish details of grants awarded and organisations funded by City Bridge Foundation. Social investments The City Bridge Foundation Social Investment Fund A £22 million fund to support charitable organisations that want to access funding through social investment. It aims to achieve a positive financial return and demonstrable social benefit. Stepping Stones Fund Our Stepping Stones Fund closed to new applications in October 2024. Funding opportunities from the City of London Corporation Our trustee, the City of London Corporation , has a strong track record of charitable giving over many centuries. The Central Funding and Charity Management Team are responsible for managing the grant-making within the City Corporation. They work closely with our funding team, ensuring we meet the highest standards in grant-making. The Central Funding and Charity Management Team manages the following grant streams: Community Infrastructure Levy Neighbourhood Fund Community Infrastructure Levy Neighbourhood Fund Central Grants Programme Stronger communities Enjoying green spaces and the natural environment Inspiring London through culture The City Corporation is also responsible for a number of other grant-giving charities as well as making other grants available to individuals and organisations. Find out more about the City Corporation’s work with the community . Related content Impact and learning Non-financial support