Cookies on this website We've put some small files called cookies on your device to make our site work. We’d also like to use analytics cookies. These send information about how our site is used to a service called Google Analytics. We use this information to improve our site. Let us know if this is OK. We’ll use a cookie to save your choice. You can read more about our cookies here before you choose . Contact us Contact City Bridge Foundation For general enquiries about City Bridge Foundation, our bridges, funding and philanthropic work, please email: funding@citybridgefoundation.org.uk Call City Bridge Foundation: 020 7332 3710 Your call will be answered by the City of London Corporation’s contact centre. They will pass your message to the City Bridge Foundation team. Sign up to our monthly newsletter Each month we share news of funding opportunities and free support for London’s charitable and social investment sector. Media enquiries For media enquiries relating to our bridges or our funding work: Email Maddie Moralee on comms@citybridgefoundation.org.uk Call on: 07796 711654 For urgent media enquiries outside normal office hours: Call: 020 3838 1400 Feedback for City Bridge Foundation We always welcome feedback on how we can improve our service. If you have any comments or suggestions relating to how we operate, please email feedback@citybridgefoundation.org.uk For more information, including how to make a complaint, please see our page on comments, complaints and suggestions . Reporting malpractice (whistleblowing) If you wish to report concerns of malpractice, please do so through our trustee, the City of London Corporation. If you wish to remain anonymous, you can also use City Corporation’s Online Services form. The ​ ‘ Raise your concern form’ can be found under ​ ‘ Reporting and Application Forms’. Bridge enquiries Working with its trustee, the City of London Corporation, City Bridge Foundation owns and maintains five Thames bridges. Tower Bridge London Bridge Southwark Bridge Millennium Bridge Blackfriars Bridge Use the link below to contact our bridges team. Visiting Tower Bridge Tower Bridge is one of our charity’s iconic bridges . Discover iconic London views from the Tower Bridge Walkways, dare yourself to walk across the spectacular Glass Floors and marvel at the feat of Victorian engineering inside the mighty Engine Rooms. Contact Tower Bridge Visiting City Bridge Foundation The City Bridge Foundation office is located at the Guildhall, London EC2V 7HH. Our office is accessed via the Reception Desk at the West Wing Entrance, located on the corner of Gresham Street and Aldermanbury. Please do not visit without an appointment. The West Wing Entrance and our office are wheelchair accessible, with wheelchair accessible WC facilities. Write to City Bridge Foundation City Bridge Foundation City of London PO Box 270, Guildhall London, EC2P 2EJ (this is our postal address only) Grant applications can only be submitted via our online application system. We will not consider any application sent by post or email and nor will we review any draft or initial proposals sent by post or email. If you wish to write to us, or share anything with us, please use email if you can. Website feedback To provide feedback on our new website, please use the email form on our Accessibility page. Thank you.