Cookies on this website We've put some small files called cookies on your device to make our site work. We’d also like to use analytics cookies. These send information about how our site is used to a service called Google Analytics. We use this information to improve our site. Let us know if this is OK. We’ll use a cookie to save your choice. You can read more about our cookies here before you choose . Governance Governance, decision making and strategic guidance at City Bridge Foundation How we are governed The City Bridge Foundation Board has day-to-day responsibility for administering City Bridge Foundation on behalf of our Trustee, the City of London Corporation. The City Corporation’s principal decision making body, the Court of Common Council, retains ultimate oversight of, and responsibility for, City Bridge Foundation, with some aspects of our charity’s governance and administration being reserved to the Court. The City Bridge Foundation Board delegates some of its responsibilities to its two Committees: The Investment Committee: responsible for the strategic oversight and monitoring of the performance of the charity’s investment portfolio. The Funding Committee: responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of the funding policy, which includes grant-making and social investment activities. Trustee duties The City of London Corporation is the trustee of City Bridge Foundation, acting by the Court of Common Council. The Court of Common Council carries out these trustee functions through the City Corporation’s internal governance framework, whether by members in committee or officers operating under delegated authority. Trustees have particular legal duties and responsibilities, including to act independently and in the best interests of the charity and only in furtherance of the charitable purposes of the charity, to safeguard the charity’s assets and reputation, to act within their powers and to manage conflicts of interest. Trustees need to understand the regulatory landscape and the particular compliance and reporting obligations which apply. Aside from these legal obligations, trustees are also expected to meet certain standards of good governance practice which are aimed at supporting compliance with the law and regulatory landscape and supporting the successful operation of the charity for its charitable purposes. City of London Corporation Visit the City of London Corporation’s website Equity partners advising our funding team City Bridge Foundation is working with seven equity partners — organisations which act as critical friends to the charity. Each equity partner is an organisation with active engagement across London and a focus on a group or groups as defined by the Equalities Act . In most cases, our equity partners are second-tier organisations providing infrastructure support to other organisations. They are also ​ ‘ led by and for’ the communities or groups they represent. The equity partners advise and support us on the implementation of our funding policy and processes, including our approach to impact and learning. They also help us to better understand the sectors and environments they operate in, and the communities they represent. Individually and collectively, our equity partners bring a range of perspectives to help inform City Bridge Foundation’s work. Meet our seven equity partners Action on Race Equality (ARE) Action on Race Equality champion fairness, challenge discrimination and pioneer innovative solutions to empower Black, Asian and Mixed Heritage people through education, employment and enterprise. Action on Race Equality ALLFIE (Alliance for Inclusive Education) ALLFIE, the Alliance for Inclusive Education, is an organisation led by Disabled people which focuses on campaigning and information-sharing on education, training and apprenticeship issues. ALLFIE The AVOCADO Foundation The AVOCADO Foundation works to tackle inequality through quality education by equipping individuals and organisations with tools for stewardship, financial sustainability and entrepreneurship. The AVOCADO Foundation Consortium Consortium is a UK-based charity that supports not-for-profit LGBT+ organisations and groups. As a national membership organisation they focus on the development and support of LGBT+ groups, projects and organisations so they can deliver direct services and campaign for individual rights. Consortium Inclusion London Inclusion London supports more than 70 Deaf and Disabled people’s organisations across London and campaigns for Deaf and Disabled people’s equality and inclusion across the UK. Inclusion London Race on the Agenda (ROTA) Race on the Agenda is one of Britain’s leading anti-racist change drivers. Working with communities impacted by systemic racism, ROTA works to eliminate systemic racial injustices and to create the policies and practices that tackle inequality. Race on the Agenda Women's Resource Centre The Women’s Resource Centre is the leading national umbrella organisation for the women’s sector. The WRC works towards transformational and substantive equality for women, supporting women’s organisations to be more effective and sustainable Women’s Resource Centre Strategic guidance and Annual Reports City Bridge Foundation’s strategy 2020–2045 Our Bridging London strategy sets a clear and ambitious vision for a connected capital, which we will deliver by maintaining and promoting world-class bridges, developing and delivering world-class charitable funding, and embedding and encouraging world-class responsible business practices. Our cross-cutting strategic ambitions of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion and Climate Action will be fundamental to everything we do. Standing with Londoners: Funding Policy 2025 — 2035 Our new funding policy, launched in March 2025, focuses on changing the systems that keep people marginalised, while also addressing the issues communities face right now. The new funding policy aims to maximise the impact of our resources in achieving a more equitable London. We will do this by focusing on changing the systems that keep people marginalised — through collaboration and co-ordination across London’s civil society, charities, communities, funders, government and business. We aim to launch the first of our new funding programmes in autumn 2025. City Bridge Foundation Investment Strategy Statement Our investment objectives seek to support the achievement of our vision and aims as set out in the Bridging London Strategy. This is to support a better connected London by taking a values-driven approach to becoming a world-class bridge owner, charitable funder and responsible leader. Annual Reports View or download our Annual Reports and Financial Statements for the last five years. Equity, Diversity and Inclusion At City Bridge Foundation we are committed to being a truly inclusive, anti-racist organisation with a robust, progressive and proactive Equity, Diversity and Inclusion programme. Climate action and sustainability At City Bridge Foundation we are committed to being a truly inclusive, anti-racist organisation with a robust, progressive and proactive Equity, Diversity and Inclusion programme. Recent changes City Bridge Foundation is the working name of the historic Bridge House Estates. From 1995 to September 2023 our charity funding team was known as City Bridge Trust. In September 2023, our bridges and charity funding teams were brought together under a new name – City Bridge Foundation. Related content City Bridge Foundation’s strategy 2020–2045 Annual reviews and reports