Cookies on this website We've put some small files called cookies on your device to make our site work. We’d also like to use analytics cookies. These send information about how our site is used to a service called Google Analytics. We use this information to improve our site. Let us know if this is OK. We’ll use a cookie to save your choice. You can read more about our cookies here before you choose . Non-financial support We invest our time as well as our money, using our people, networks and experience to expand our impact Our offer of non-financial support includes: We use our people, networks and experience to bolster our financial support, as we believe that truly impactful philanthropy includes the giving of skills, time and talent as well as money. We often refer to this as our ​ ‘ Total Assets’ approach. In this way we ensure everyone makes the most of the resources available to them. We offer help to those we are funding to boost their impact and provide support to those not already receiving funding from us. Working alongside our Trustee, the City of London Corporation , we also encourage more, and better giving in the City, in the UK, and overseas. Total assets: established programmes of non-financial support These programmes have been designed to support London’s civil society organisations with non-financial resources by leveraging: our links to civil society, other funders and the wider funding ecology our links to civil society, other funders and the wider funding ecology the expertise and networks of our trustee, the City of London Corporation the expertise and networks of our trustee, the City of London Corporation our physical infrastructure: our bridges, properties and green spaces our physical infrastructure: our bridges, properties and green spaces our communications infrastructure: our website and other channels our communications infrastructure: our website and other channels our convening power and our role as commissioner of products and services our convening power and our role as commissioner of products and services our human capital: especially volunteers our human capital: especially volunteers Funder Plus: extra support for our grant holders We also offer a range of additional, non-financial support that is only available to existing grant-holding organisations. Our Funder Plus offer can provide tailored capacity building support to create lasting skills in areas such as management, charity governance, digital and communication. Related content Financial support