Your browser is no longer supported. Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience. The James Tudor Foundation’s Mental Health Grant programme is designed to support UK registered charities operating at a regional or national level that are helping children and young people recovering from Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) and parents affected by ACEs, mental illness or addiction. Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) are defined as “potentially traumatic events or chronic stressors that occur before the age of 18 and are uncontrollable to the child”. They include the following: Sexual abuse. Physical abuse or neglect. Emotional abuse or neglect. Living in a household where there is domestic violence. Living with a parent with substance abuse. Living with a parent who has a mental illness. Losing a parent through death, abandonment, or divorce, and/or Having a parent in prison. Grants of up to £25,000 over 12-months (occasionally for up to 3 years), with no matched funding requirement, are available for evidence-based, trauma-informed interventions designed to overcome and prevent the trauma of Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs). The programme works on several levels, supporting both children and young people affected by ACEs, as well as supporting parents to help break the cycle of trauma across generations. The Foundation’s two areas of support are: Support for children and young people – under this focus, the Foundation wants to partner with charities that solely support children and young people who have suffered one or more ACEs, and they do so through evidence-based, trauma-informed therapies. Support for parents – under this focus, the Foundation wants to partner with specialist charities that solely focus on supporting parents and complex family challenges. Organisation that are working either regionally or nationally and can meet the following criteria are eligible to apply: Have as their key focus preventing and/or reducing the impact of Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) – helping children and young people, and parents and caregivers – see the definition of ACEs above. Use trauma-informed approaches and evidence-based interventions. Are actively patient led in shaping, running, and improving their services. Can demonstrate real impact through their own evaluations or independent research, and Have an annual income of less than £20 million and at least 5 years’ audited or independently examined accounts. To apply, charities should: 1. Check their eligibility using the Eligibility Checker on the Foundation’s website. If you are eligible, submit a brief Expression of Interest via the Foundation’s online application platform (applicants will be directed to the form once they have successfully completed the Eligibility Checker). Requests that matches the programme’s funding priorities, and the Foundation’s assessment is that it has at least a 75% chance of being awarded a grant, will be invited to submit a Full Application. Expressions of Interest should be submitted by 5pm on Wednesday 5th November 2025. For further information and guidance and to access the Eligibility Checker , please visit the Foundation’s website . Contact details for the programme are: The Grants Team The James Tudor Foundation Suite 24, Trym Lodge 1 Henbury Road Westbury on Trym Bristol BS9 3HQ Email: [email protected] Contact details for the Foundation are: The Grants Team The James Tudor Foundation Suite 24, Trym Lodge 1 Henbury Road Westbury on Trym Bristol BS9 3HQ Tel: 0117 959 6496 Email: [email protected] Deadline: 5 November 2025 OPPORTUNITY Coast-R Network Small Grants Fund OPPORTUNITY The Naturesave Trust OPPORTUNITY Common Ground Award