Your browser is no longer supported. Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience. In Cornwall, we want to see more people having their voice heard, and experiencing the benefits of being part of research. The Research Engagement Network has been set up to increase the diversity of those who take part in research and to be more representative of the local population, support engagement with communities who are typically underrepresented in research and support our Integrated Care System to develop and grow local research activity. Research plays a key role in developing better care, services and treatments for our health and wellbeing, and is recognised as an important part of how our Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly Integrated Care System (CIOS ICS) identifies and addresses the significant health inequalities and challenges in our region. Involving communities in research can help identify the most important research topics and the best ways of researching them. Voluntary, Community and Social Enterprise (VCSE) organisations play an important role in involving communities in research through their relationships, knowledge and skills in engaging with diverse communities across our region. Research Brokerage Service Cornwall REN’s Research Brokerage Service, coordinated by Cornwall VSF aims to provide a single point of contact for researchers and VCSE organisations who are interested in collaborating on health and care-focussed research. Drawing on insights from partners and people in the VCSE and research sectors, our Research Brokerage Service work focuses on: Supporting partners to connect and develop ways of working together based on reciprocity and sustainability. Building capacity for partnerships by developing shared expectations and enhancing skills and knowledge. Oversight and strategic direction for this work is provided by the Cornwall’s REN steering group with representation from Cornwall and Isles of Scilly ICB, Royal Cornwall Hospital Trust, Cornwall Partnership Foundation Trust, NIHR, Cornwall Council, University of Exeter and the VCSE. If you are a VCSE organisation or a researcher looking for support or advice please use the links below to make an enquiry with the Cornwall REN’s Research Brokerage team: I'm a VCSE organisation If you are a VCSE organisation interested in growing your involvement or knowledge about health and wellbeing research, we can support you to: Hear about research opportunities and findings via our Health and Wellbeing Alliance Training on developing research knowledge and skills Provide advice on how your organisation can get involved in research, including how you can pursue research ideas from your organisation and/or the communities you support Connect with research partners Establish a partnership with a research partner – this may include facilitating conversations about shared goals, expectations and ways of working together. A helpful starting point for these conversations is the NIHR community engagement toolkit I'm a researcher If you are a researcher looking to grow your connections with VCSE organisations and their beneficiaries for health and wellbeing research, we can support you to: Share research opportunities and findings through Cornwall VSF’s networks and channels Provide advice on engaging with VCSE partners Connect with VCSE partners Establish a partnership with a VCSE partner – this may include facilitating conversations about shared goals, expectations and ways of working together, using the principles outlined in the NIHR community engagement toolkit How does this work align nationally? In March 2024 National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) published its first Strategic Commitments for Public Partnerships to improve how it works with patients, carers and the public. Recognising the vital role of communities and community organisations that support them, one of their five commitments is to: “Strengthen and grow mutually beneficial partnerships between researchers and communities, and their community-based organisations, to better reflect the diversity of the population.” Cornwall’s REN C ornwall’s REN began in September 2023 when partners came together to start mapping the complexity of the research happening in Cornwall both within and outside the of the Health Care institutions. Working with The Autistic Community Cornwall, Youth Arts Connect, Community Makers at Volunteer Cornwall, Rice and Peas and CN4C we gave out grants to support community conversations to understand what barriers to participation community members were facing . Four different approaches culminating in a full day workshop in Redruth in April 2024. System Complexity of Research Cornwall REN resources Cornwall REN workshop sketch JPG 0.8MB REN and the Autistic Community of Cornwall PDF 0.8MB Surfacing Complexity of the Research_System System Complexity of Research WEBP 0.0MB System Complexity of Research Guide for Researchers PDF 0.1MB During 2024 and into 2025 Cornwall’s REN has been working to build research capacity in the VCSE sector, making training available to community members and working closely with the Health Determinants Research Collaboration Cornwall as well as mapping PPIE (Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement) activity in the research sphere here in Cornwall. In 2025 we will be working with all our partners to develop an approach to PPIE that can be implemented across the system which we believe will have the following impact: Increased Research Relevance and Impact: People taking part in research will contribute to studies that are designed around their real-world experiences and priorities, ensuring the research questions and methods genuinely address the challenges they face. This leads to findings that are more likely to translate into tangible improvements in their lives and the health and care services they receive. Empowered and Valued Participation: A shared PPIE approach fosters a culture where participants are seen as active partners, not just subjects. Their insights and perspectives directly influence how research is planned, carried out, and disseminated, ensuring their voices are heard and valued throughout the entire process. Improved Research Experience and Trust: By building “shared expectations” and enhancing the skills of both researchers and VCSE partners in collaboration, research processes become more considerate, ethical, and user-friendly. This respectful engagement builds greater trust between the research community and the public, encouraging more meaningful and sustained participation in future studies. More resources What is an Insights Bank DOCX 0.0MB All about me -Debs Dulake DOCX 0.0MB Exploring challenges and opportunities around the collection and use of demographic data in recruitment, participation and involvement PDF 1.9MB REN cultural humility PDF 0.7MB NIHR Work Research ready communities PDF PDF 2.2MB EDI Final Report 110422-compressed PDF 2.5MB Research that… Beresford Lee from Rice and Peas, did a fantastic poem exploring all the ways he perceives research is avoiding researching things that matter to the people. FAQ What is a Research Engagement Network (REN)? The NHS England funded Research Engagement Network Development (REND) programme was launched in October 2022 to develop local partnerships between Integrated Care Systems (ICS), NIHR research infrastructure and Voluntary, Community, Faith and Social Enterprise (VCFSE) organisations to better enable diverse communities to get involved in research, and to embed this within ICS governance structures. The programme aims to increase the diversity of those who take part in research to be more representative of the local population; support engagement with communities who are typically underrepresented in research and support ICSs to develop and grow local Research Engagement Network activity. What is a Research Engagement Network (REN)? The NHS England funded Research Engagement Network Development (REND) programme was launched in October 2022 to develop local partnerships between Integrated Care Systems (ICS), NIHR research infrastructure and Voluntary, Community, Faith and Social Enterprise (VCFSE) organisations to better enable diverse communities to get involved in research, and to embed this within ICS governance structures. The programme aims to increase the diversity of those who take part in research to be more representative of the local population; support engagement with communities who are typically underrepresented in research and support ICSs to develop and grow local Research Engagement Network activity. How did Cornwall’s REN start? C ornwall’s REN began in September 2023 when partners came together to start mapping the complexity of the research happening in Cornwall both within and outside the of the Health Care institutions. How did Cornwall’s REN start? C ornwall’s REN began in September 2023 when partners came together to start mapping the complexity of the research happening in Cornwall both within and outside the of the Health Care institutions. Who is involved in the Cornwall REN partnership? Partners include: NHS Cornwall and Isles of Scilly Integrated Care System , Cornwall Council, University of Exeter , Volunteer Cornwall , Healthwatch Cornwall , NIHR , Cornwall VSF , CIDER – Cornwall Intellectual Disability Equitable Research and CHAOS Group. Who is involved in the Cornwall REN partnership? Partners include: NHS Cornwall and Isles of Scilly Integrated Care System , Cornwall Council, University of Exeter , Volunteer Cornwall , Healthwatch Cornwall , NIHR , Cornwall VSF , CIDER – Cornwall Intellectual Disability Equitable Research and CHAOS Group.