Your browser is no longer supported. Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience. At Cornwall VSF, we champion grassroots organisations, helping you grow stronger and more confident in your mission to make a positive impact in your area. We help connect you with a range of resources, support and opportunities to build your group’s resilience, develop vital skills and maximise your impact. We can also connect you with other organisations to work together and share best practice. Whether you are just starting out or looking to strengthen your existing efforts, we’re here to help you create lasting positive change in your community. Our free membership offer includes access to: Our VCSE Learning Academy – offers funding for bespoke training and development for employees and volunteers. Care Coins – free access to a range of health and wellbeing benefits, including counselling and Mental Health First Aid courses for anyone working or volunteering in Cornwall’s community sector. Resources – a range of guidance, templates, information and assets to help you thrive. Funding opportunities – we regularly gather a range of funding opportunties and work with Cornwall Community Foundation and other organisations to deliver direct grant funding to the sector in Cornwall. Workforce – we can help you recruit for your organisation via our jobs and trustee pages. Alliances – connect with sector colleagues and take part in working groups, supporting ongoing projects and campaigns around a place or subject area. Events – find out about events happening around you and join us at VSF events to meet other organisations and take part in workshops and training. Green Footsteps Guide – a practical toolkit to help VCSE organisations across Cornwall improve their sustainability and build resilience to the impacts of climate change. Newsletter – sign up to our weekly newsletter to receive all of the above opportunities and news delivered straight to your inbox. NCVO membership offer We have partnered with NCVO (The National Council for Voluntary Organisations) to bring a discounted membership offer for Cornwall VSF members. NCVO is a charity that champions voluntary action in England: connecting, representing and supporting voluntary organisations. NCVO has a diverse membership of over 17,000 voluntary organisations, helping them to thrive in what they do with support and guidance, saving them time and money and keeping them up to date on sector developments that affect them. By joining Cornwall VSF as a member, you will receive an exclusive code to receive: One-year free NCVO membership for organisations with a gross annual turnover of less than £100,000. 30% discount on NCVO membership to organisations with a gross annual turnover of more than £100,000. This offer excludes Cornwall VSF members who already have NCVO membership. Upcoming training and events Mor Media: Smarter Communication for Charities, Community groups and Volunteers – Saving Time with ChatGPT NCVO: Safeguarding Training & Events (July – October 2025) The National Council for Voluntary Organisations have a variety of training opportunities, surrounding the topic of Safeguarding, running from July - October 2025. School for Social Entrepreneurs: Developing a Fundraising Strategy School for Social Entrepreneurs: Measuring Social Impact School for Social Entrepreneurs: Creating a Theory of Change Get Grants Virtual Conference Funding Funding is vital to the resilience and success of Cornwall’s VCSE sector. Small grassroots organisations often face challenges in navigating the complex funding landscape and finding suitable grants. Below are some links to organisations providing funding support and other funding opportunities. Since 2003 CCF have awarded more than £20m in small grants to charitable groups making a positive impact in their communities. We partner with CCF to distribute funds via our Health Improvement Fund and Community Wellbeing Fund, through the People in Mind (PiM) partnership . CCF offers grant writing workshops and support. Access CCF support here GRIN is a small social enterprise that works with VCSE organisations across the UK and internationally to help them secure the grant funding and resources they need. This includes daily email bulletins. This bulletin comes at an annual subscription charge. Cornwall VSF will often feature grants shared via GRIN in our weekly ‘Funding Friday’ newsletter and on our website , which organisations can subscribe to for FREE . We partner with easyfundraising to help you raise unrestricted funds for your community group or organisation, simply and effectively. Watch our recorded Lunch and Learn session to find out how your volunteers, staff and supporters can use the easyfundraising platform to raise donations for free for your organisation when they shop with leading retailers. A monthly bulletin facilitated by your membership of the Rural Services Network highlighting a selection of current funding opportunities. Additional funding opportunities The National Lottery Community Fund – Solidarity Fund The Solidarity Fund will provide long-term core funding for up to ten years to organisations tackling the root causes of poverty, disadvantage and discrimination. The Chestnut Fund – Grants for Conservation Supports grassroots community groups and initiatives wanting to deliver practical volunteering that improves the natural physical environment and better connections between people and green spaces. The Naturesave Trust A limited number of grants for between £500 and £5,000 are available to UK community organisations for projects and initiatives that connect people to nature and improve biodiversity in the UK. Community Capacity Fund The Community Capacity Fund is part of the delivery of the UK Shared Prosperity Fund in Cornwall and comes under the Good Growth Programme. This fund supports community organisations to develop projects or project ideas with grants of between £1,000 and £24,999. Charity Excellence Framework: A free one-stop-shop to find grant funding, help and resources Charity Excellence Framework are a completely free one-stop-shop to find grant funding, and free help and resources. The D’oyly Carte Charitable Trust One-off revenue grants for projects and core costs up to £5,000 are available to UK registered charities working at a grassroots level in the areas of the arts, the environment and medical care. Special delivery: £100 in free funding Over £60m has been raised to date for causes including voluntary groups, social enterprises, CICs and charities all thanks to their networks shopping online. Hospice UK: Dying Matters Community Grants A limited number of grants of between £5,000 and £10,000 are available to members of Hospice UK working in partnership with (1) grassroots community organisations and (2) individuals in the creative sector to deliver arts and cultural projects that have the ability to unlock conversations about dying, death and grief in new and creative ways. Resources Volunteer Cornwall Community Hub Network Volunteer Cornwall training offer Community Hub Network Volunteer Cornwall training offer Transformation Cornwall Cornwall Rural Community Charity (CRCC) Black Voices Cornwall CLEAR Cornwall Pride Mor Media Charity Rice and Peas Community RJ Working Active Cornwall Sport England Useful Resources The Green Footsteps Guide A practical toolkit to help VCSE organisations across Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly improve their sustainability and build resilience to the impacts of climate change. Infrastructure Alliance Working together to support the VCSE sector in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly. Charity Excellence Framework: A free one-stop-shop to find grant funding, help and resources Charity Excellence Framework are a completely free one-stop-shop to find grant funding, and free help and resources. Christina Poulton Creative: Free “how-to” guides for non-profits Free guides and support for CIC and non-profit organisations. From setting up an organisation, to running your organisation. Lunch and Learn Recordings Watch past Lunch and Learn workshop recordings designed to provide bitesize offers of information to the VCSE sector. Mor Media Charity: Canva Clinics & Support for media communications Mor Media are running half-day workshops that can be attended as a linked series or individually for specific digital skills/software. Charity Digital: Non-profits – Get Adobe Express Premium for Free If you’re one of the many nonprofits promoting your organisation online by yourself, it’s time to try Adobe Express. Nonprofits can use Adobe Express to create, manage, and schedule social media posts using Express’s unique and easy-to-use tools. And nonprofits can get access to its Premium version at no cost. With Adobe Express, you can feel confident that your social media marketing is effectively reaching your community — while saving you time. Request one year of Adobe Express Premium through Charity Digital at no cost. easyfundraising: An easy and more sustainable way to fundraise We partner with easyfundraising to help you raise unrestricted funds for your community group or organisation, simply and effectively. We are delighted to see how many of you are using it, and thrilled to hear about some of the results. Feeding Britain Resources Feeding Britain is an award-winning charity with a vision of a UK where no one goes hungry. NCVO – free resources and guidance for smaller charities NCVO's website offers a wide range of free help and guidance pages from setting up your organisation, managing volunteers, digital and technology, funding and governance. Roots HR CIC Roots HR CIC specialise in providing human resources services for charities and the voluntary sector. If you have any questions or would like personalised support, please contact Rissa Reye s , Engagement Manager. Grassroots FAQs How can Cornwall VSF help my organisation? Free Cornwall VSF membership offers a range of support to small grassroots organisations. Sign up now. How can Cornwall VSF help my organisation? Free Cornwall VSF membership offers a range of support to small grassroots organisations. Sign up now. Is there funding available for training? Visit our VCSE Learning Academy page to find out more about of training and development offer for staff and volunteers. Is there funding available for training? Visit our VCSE Learning Academy page to find out more about of training and development offer for staff and volunteers. Does Cornwall VSF give out grant funding? We partner with CCF to distribute funds via our Health Improvement Fund and Community Wellbeing Fund, through the People in Mind (PiM) partnership . We also work with Peninsula Cancer Alliance to distribute grants to VCSE organisations in Cornwall to provide cancer awareness education with the aim of driving up early diagnosis in our most vulnerable communities. Sign-up to our newsletter to find out when these Funding rounds are next open. Does Cornwall VSF give out grant funding? We partner with CCF to distribute funds via our Health Improvement Fund and Community Wellbeing Fund, through the People in Mind (PiM) partnership . We also work with Peninsula Cancer Alliance to distribute grants to VCSE organisations in Cornwall to provide cancer awareness education with the aim of driving up early diagnosis in our most vulnerable communities. Sign-up to our newsletter to find out when these Funding rounds are next open.