Your browser is no longer supported. Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience. Cornwall Voluntary Sector Forum (VSF) is a charity dedicated to connecting, supporting and promoting the voluntary, community and social enterprise (VCSE) sector in Cornwall and Isles of Scilly. Our aim is to support local charities, voluntary groups, and social enterprises. We do this to build a stronger and more sustainable community sector. Our vision A connected, supported, and well-promoted VCSE. A sector that is sustainable, flexible, and resilient. Our mission Make connections and facilitate impactful dialogue between the sector and statutory bodies. This will result in greater involvement of the sector; in design and delivery of services. We use thematic and place-based forums and alliances. Support the VCSE sector to deliver high quality, community-led services. We provide access to training, funding opportunities, collaborative bid writing and communications. Promote the vital role the VCSE sector has in improving the wellbeing of people, communities, and our environment. We demonstrate the impact of the sector, undertaking research, campaigns, and strategic representation. Our values The way we work with the sector and our partners is underpinned by the following values which have been co-designed by the sector. We expect our Board, and staff to demonstrate these values and behaviours and to lead by example: Compassionate – We are kind, considerate, respectful, and caring. Honest – We are open, truthful, transparent, and sincere. Inclusive – We are approachable, collaborative, accessible and value difference. Our history Cornwall VSF was formed in 1992 when a small group of people came together to discuss issues for the sector in Cornwall. We have been championing the VCSE sector ever since. Our members We work for and on behalf of our members. You help us shape the direction of the charity and elect our trustees. Our members work for VCSE organisations based in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly. We exist to advocate for you on important issues. These include funding, commissioning, value and impact. We aim to effect positive change for the sector. This is by focusing a large proportion of our lobbying efforts on public sector bodies such as NHS Cornwall and Isles of Scilly and Cornwall Council . We are here to act independently on behalf of all organisations and groups in the sector. You can sign up to VSF membership here Our impact We are pleased to publish our latest impact report which reflects on the past three years, one of the busiest and most impactful periods in our 33-year history. This period from 2022 to 2025, has seen the formal recommissioning of VCSE Sector infrastructure, delivered through Cornwall VSF by Cornwall Council and the allocation and delivery of a £3million grant from NHS Cornwall and Isles of Scilly’s Integrated Care Board (ICB). Over the last three years, we have rebuilt our charity’s business infrastructure, improved our governance and Board, engaged and supported 455 sector members and over 257 public sector partners in our mission to connect, support and promote the VCSE sector in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly. Having trouble viewing this document? Click here to download it . Valuing our team We are proud to be a Disability Confident Committed employer. By being an accredited Real Living Wage employer, we have made a commitment to pay our staff a real Living Wage and helped launch a campaign to make Cornwall a Real Living Wage place. We have a baseline commitment to ensure of staff are all Mental Health First Aid trained. Additionally, some of of our staff have completed Quality Assured mental health or suicide prevention training and are therefore Orange Button holders. Awards and recognition We support and represent our incredible VCSE sector in a number of initiatives and partnerships with statutory partners including NHS and Cornwall Council. Over the years, these projects have received awards and recognition, including winning gold in the NHS Parliamentary Award for Excellence in Healthcare.