Your browser is no longer supported. Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience. About Who is Cornwall VSF? We are a charity dedicated to connecting, supporting and promoting the voluntary, community and social enterprise (VCSE) sector in Cornwall and Isles of Scilly. Our aim is to support local charities, voluntary groups, and social enterprises to build a stronger and more sustainable community sector. Help us understand the state of Cornwall’s VCSE sector! 8 October 2025 Beyond the Postcard: Why Cornwall Needs a New Lens on Poverty 2 October 2025 Cornwall’s voluntary groups celebrated 29 September 2025 A Day of Stories, Strategy, and Shared Purpose 26 September 2025 Cornwall and Isles of Scilly joins national Neighbourhood Health Implementation Programme 15 September 2025 About Working to create greater connections. We coordinate partnerships to deliver services for people in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly. These include People in Mind, Kernow Community Gateway and hub network, WorkWell and Supportmatch Homeshare. About Working together around a common theme. Our alliances enable VCSE organisations, groups and individuals to come together to share challenges and opportunities, provide peer support, and lobby for change. Resources for the sector Funding opportunities Training Jobs Exploring Digital Approaches for Wellbeing in Anxiety and Depression Say No to Hate Conference Cornwall and Isles of Scilly Local Nature Partnership Conference 2025 Featured training opportunities Volunteer Cornwall: Finding and Keeping Volunteers RJ Working: Tackling Racism Restoratively Active Cornwall: Basic First Aid (November) You might like... Grassroots Empowering and connecting grassroots organisations to create lasting positive change in our communities. Welcome to WorkWell Supporting people to start, stay and succeed in work. Cancer Focused Community Outreach Fund The Cancer Focused Community Outreach Fund aims to support voluntary and community organisations in Devon, Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly to implement innovative engagement activities that increase education around prevention in our targeted cancer sights and increase the awareness and uptake of cancer screening.