Your browser is no longer supported. Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience. We come across a range of information that you might find useful. We store these documents and assets in our resources for charities section. This includes impact reports and templates, social media assets for campaigns, toolkits, and planners. We sort resources by category to help you find ones that are right for your organisation. Sport in Mind: October 2025 Calendar Our sessions take place every week, throughout the year and are fun, casual drop-in sessions. All equipment is provided and all abilities are very welcome! Community Gateway assets – September 2025 Download a range of branded assets to share with the communities you work with. NHS: Parkinson’s Carer Survey Understanding carers’ experiences is vital to improving the model of care in the South West. Carers of people living with Parkinson’s locally are invited to take part in this survey, which remains open until 31 October 2025. West Penwith Car Share Trial In partnership with Mobilityways, Cornwall Rural Community Charity and local stakeholders we are undertaking the trial of a Car Share community for the West Penwith area. The project looks to increase transport options in some of our most rural communities. The trial will initially run for a period of 12 months. Cornwall Council: Age Friendly Cornwall survey Age Friendly Communities are recognised by the World Health Organisation (WHO) as places that help people to live a good later life. Public Health Cornwall is working in partnership to support an application for Cornwall to become an Age Friendly Community. Responses from people of all ages welcomed. Young Trustees Movement: Across the Board – training for charity boards looking to recruit young people oung Trustees Movement is excited to be launching Across the Board, a brand new training offer for charity boards which aims to equip chairs & trustees with the knowledge and tools they need to embrace working with, recruiting and retaining young people. Young Trustees Movement: Board Boost – Young Trustee accelerator programme Board Boost is designed for current or aspiring young trustees between the ages of 18 - 30 who are interested in learning more about governance. It will benefit any young person who is or wants to be a trustee - helping them gain confidence in the role and understanding what it means to be a trustee who is active, engaged and curious. University of Warwick: Annual health check survey for parent/carers of young people with a learning disability Survey of parents or carers of young people aged 14-17 to learn how annual health checks can be improved. Cornwall Creates: Sustainability Action Plan for the Creative Sector This Sustainability Action Plan is the result of a series of gatherings and a shared commitment from creatives, cultural organisations, and communities across Cornwall. Launch of new website showcasing health creation and climate resilience across Primary Care in Cornwall The Health and Climate Resilience Programme’s website has launched and provides local case studies and resources for general practice, dentistry, optometry, and community pharmacy. Cornwall Council X Co Wheels CIC: Weekend Car Club Trial Cornwall Council is working with Co Wheels CIC to trial a weekend car club, offering residents and community groups public access to our Co Wheels pool cars on Saturdays and Sundays. The trial is designed to extend the benefits of low-cost, clean car travel to communities across Cornwall. Carbon Neutal Cornwall 2030 Hive The Let's Talk Carbon Neutral Cornwall 2030 Hive by Cornwall Council, features up-to-date news and training opportunities, Find out how you can help Cornwall become carbon neutral.