Your browser is no longer supported. Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience. Our VCSE Learning Academy offers funding for organisations to enhance training opportunities for staff and volunteers. Visit our FAQs at the bottom of this page for more information. Make an enquiry by completing our training form below. Training opportunities Volunteer Cornwall: Finding and Keeping Volunteers RJ Working: Tackling Racism Restoratively Volunteer Cornwall: NOCN Level 3 Information Advice or Guidance (October) Volunteer Cornwall: ILM Level 3 Award in Leadership and Management Mor Media: Creating eye catching designs using Canva – Create designs using Canva from social media posts to flyers, posters and pamphlets Active Cornwall: Safeguarding & Protecting Children (October) Active Cornwall: Welfare Officer Training – Time to Listen (October) Active Cornwall: Safeguarding Adults Online Classroom Training for Club Welfare Officers (October) Volunteer Cornwall: FAA Level 3 Award in Principles in Safeguarding Children, Young People and Adults (October) Mor Media Charity: From Clips to Content – Editing short videos for social media and online use. OSCP: Working with Parental Consent – October NHS Funded Training Opportunities: Coaching Conversations (October) PLA: Trustee Training – Strengthen Your Governance Skills and Make a Lasting Impact Active Cornwall: Safeguarding Adults Online Classroom Training for Club Welfare Officers (November) Active Cornwall: Basic First Aid (November) CIOS Safeguarding Adults Board: Advanced Mental Capacity Act Train the Trainer Mor Media: Smarter Communication for Charities, Community groups and Volunteers – Saving Time with ChatGPT Mor Media: Creating eye catching designs using Canva – Create designs using Canva from social media posts to flyers, posters and pamphlets The Peer Partnership: Strengthening Resilience – thriving in the VCSE workplace Volunteer Cornwall: Fear Less Presentations RJ Working: Restorative Facilitator Training (November) The Peer Partnership: Group Dynamics and Facilitation RJ Working: Introduction to Restorative Practice (November) The Peer Partnership: Co-Creation of Support Services: Planning and Implementation The Peer Partnership: Recognising and Responding to Challenging Behaviour Workshop CLEAR x Inclusion Cornwall: Reset for Resilience NHS Funded Training Opportunities: Coaching Conversations (November) The Peer Partnership: How to Design a Peer Support Service The Peer Partnership: Boundaries in the Workplace workshop Volunteer Cornwall: Looking forward to 2026 – Succession planning Active Cornwall: Safeguarding & Protecting Children (December) RJ Working: Tackling Climate Change Restoratively (December) Volunteer Cornwall: NOCN Level 3 Information Advice or Guidance (January 2026) Apply for funded training Please complete the form to apply for funding through the VCSE Learning Academy. Leadership and management training Our VCSE Learning Academy offers training for senior managers and leaders in the VCSE sector. This includes funding for qualifications at Level 3 and above. The VCSE Learning Academy can fund courses delivered at a time and place that is convenient to you. This could include online and distance learning. Contact us to find out what courses we can fund. Some eligibility criteria may apply. Make an enquiry by completing our training form. Training events calendar View a range of training events offered across Cornwall including courses supported by the Learning Academy. Training for charity workers Our VCSE Learning Academy offers training for community workers. This training is for people in roles such as community workers, support workers, and social prescribers. The VCSE Learning Academy can fund courses delivered at a time and place that is convenient to you. This could include online and distance learning. Contact us to find out what courses we can fund. Some eligibility criteria may apply. Make an enquiry by completing our training form. Additional training resources Further training support and past Lunch and Learn session recordings to help your organisation thrive. I’ve gained a deeper understanding around how to be an effective mental health first-aider I feel more confident with handling difficult situations and I have understood how to approach different scenarios and challenges when it comes to mental health Detailed training with a good balance of content and practice to ensure the practice was not abstract but a working tool with real world applications. Informative, interesting and powerful. The course covered a wide range of excellent tools, which are user friendly and free. The trainer matched the course content to attendees including content and level of students which was really helpful and valuable. The level of expertise of trainer was evident by her knowledge and attention to detail. Friday was an excellent course that I would highly recommend to others…Was good to talk to other attendees to pick their brains. This course was life changing and I have learnt so much I want to take forward. Are you a training provider? If you are a training organisation in the VCSE sector and want to join as a potential supplier, please send information about the courses you offer including costs and locations. FAQ Can the VCSE learning Academy fund more than one person in an organisation? Yes, we can fund anyone who fulfils the eligibility criteria. Can the VCSE learning Academy fund more than one person in an organisation? Yes, we can fund anyone who fulfils the eligibility criteria. Will the funding cover the whole cost of my training course? The VCSE Learning Academy can fund eligible courses costing up to £650. Courses costing more than £650 may be eligible for part-funding. Will the funding cover the whole cost of my training course? The VCSE Learning Academy can fund eligible courses costing up to £650. Courses costing more than £650 may be eligible for part-funding. Will the funding cover travelling and other expenses? VCSE Learning Academy funding is for training only. Some course providers include course books. We are unable to fund travel and other expenses. Will the funding cover travelling and other expenses? VCSE Learning Academy funding is for training only. Some course providers include course books. We are unable to fund travel and other expenses. How much of the course details do I need to know to apply? If you have a specific course in mind, please give us as much detail as possible. If you have a topic in mind but can’t find a course, let us know. We might be able to gather a group from different organisations and arrange training for you. How much of the course details do I need to know to apply? If you have a specific course in mind, please give us as much detail as possible. If you have a topic in mind but can’t find a course, let us know. We might be able to gather a group from different organisations and arrange training for you. Can I do a non-accredited course? We can fund some non-accredited courses – please use our enquiry form to find out more. Can I do a non-accredited course? We can fund some non-accredited courses – please use our enquiry form to find out more. Can I do more than one course? Unfortunately, we can only fund one training course per person. Can I do more than one course? Unfortunately, we can only fund one training course per person. How is the VCSE Learning Academy funded? The VCSE Learning Academy is funded by Cornwall Isles of Scilly Integrated Care Board and Cornwall Council. How is the VCSE Learning Academy funded? The VCSE Learning Academy is funded by Cornwall Isles of Scilly Integrated Care Board and Cornwall Council.