Your browser is no longer supported. Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience. Funding is crucial to the wellbeing and resilience of the VCSE sector. We help organisations and funders by sharing information and intelligence. We sort funding opportunities by category to help you find ones that are right for your organisation. The Hospital Saturday Fund One-off grants for medical projects that require capital funding, medical care or research, medical training and running costs. The Stobart Sustainability Fund Grants are available to UK registered charities, community groups, educational institutions and small businesses for projects that tackle climate change, reduce carbon emissions or that protect and enhance the environment. The Jerwood Foundation Grants of £1,000 - £20,000 are available for UK arts-based organisations for activities and projects that support the promotion of the arts for public health. The Pixel Fund Grants for projects that promote the mental health and wellbeing of children and young adults aged 25 and under. The Oliver Ford Foundation Grants, generally for up to £10,000, are available to UK charitable organisations supporting children, young people and adults with learning disabilities or learning difficulties, as well as the advancement of interior decoration, fabric design, decorative materials and landscape gardening Green Allotments: New Allotment Site Fund Funding is available for organisations and individuals that are passionate about establishing a new allotment site in their community. The Heritage Crafts Association: Endangered Crafts Fund Small grants are available to individuals and voluntary and community organisations in the UK, especially craft practitioners for projects that support endangered crafts listed on the Red List of Endangered Crafts. The Elephant Trust Small grants are available to small UK charitable arts organisations, galleries and individual artists that are finding it difficult to secure funding for new work and exhibitions. The Triangle Trust 1949 Fund Grants of up to £80,000 over 2 years (i.e. up to £40,000 per year) are available to UK registered charities, not-for-profit organisations and Community Interest Companies working with young women and girls aged 11-25 who have been in the criminal justice system or who are at a high risk of offending for the first time. The National Garden Scheme Community Gardens Grants 2026 Grants of between £1,500 and £5,000 are available for community gardening projects in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. The Universal Sound Foundation: The School Fund Grants of up to £1,000 are available to schools in the UK and Ireland that are teaching the national curriculum to support music education for young people in all its forms, specifically for school music projects and the purchase of instruments and equipment. The National Lottery Fund: Million Hours Fund The Million Hours Fund provides youth organisations with funding to deliver positive activities for young people in areas with higher rates of anti-social behaviour.