Additional £750,000 awarded to inspire activity in Essex Our continued funding partnership with Active Essex is helping thousands of residents lead active and healthy lives, with £1.75 million funding awarded since 2022 Following the second edition of RideLondon in Essex, we’re delighted to be continuing our funding partnership with Active Essex and have awarded an additional £750,000 to support communities across Essex to lead active and healthy lives. This brings our total funding awarded in Essex to £1.75 million since May 2022. Essex became one of our core funding areas last year, thanks to the partnership between RideLondon (organised by London Marathon Events, our events company) and Essex County Council. News of this additional funding comes less than two weeks after this year’s Ford RideLondon-Essex, which saw the county welcome more than 22,500 riders taking part in one of three inspirational rides and two stages of the Ford RideLondon Classique, the UCI Women’s World Tour professional race, between Friday 26 and Sunday 28 May. Our funding in Essex will continue to be managed by Active Essex, building on an existing partnership which has supported more than 15,000 residents and counting to participate in physical activity. In the first year of our funding partnership: More than 220 grants have been awarded through the Find Your Active small grants programme, supporting residents of all ages and abilities to get active across Essex by taking part in a wide range of activities. More than 700 free bikes have been distributed to residents in Clacton & Jaywick through the Essex Pedal Power programme, with more bikes to be distributed across Colchester, Harwich & Dovercourt and Basildon this summer. More than 70 schools have been supported to develop Active Travel Plans, so more pupils can walk, cycle or scoot to school. Active Essex will use the new £750,000 to continue the Find Your Active small grants programme for another year – supporting projects that will help the Foundation’s priority audiences of children, young people and marginalised communities to get active, while also scaling up some of the projects previously funded through the programme over the past year. The new funding will also support the development of a Junior Essex Pedal Power programme, to provide free bikes to young people most in need. Catherine Anderson , London Marathon Foundation’s Executive Director , said: “Thanks to RideLondon-Essex, our funding has enabled thousands of people across Essex to cycle, walk, scoot, run and generally be more active in a way that’s right for them all year round. We’re looking forward to working with Active Essex for another year, building on the impact we’ve already had and supporting many more residents across the county to lead active and healthy lives, truly delivering on our mission of Inspiring Activity.” Jason Fergus , Director of Active Essex , said: "The tremendous benefits of bringing RideLondon to Essex are now clear to see. Following the return of the event for the second year, it’s great we can continue this funding partnership with the London Marathon Foundation to inspire activity among communities along the RideLondon route, and across the county.” Councillor Lee Scott , Essex County Council Cabinet Member for Highways Maintenance and Sustainable Transport , added: "I’m so pleased to see the funding from the London Marathon Foundation return to Essex following Ford RideLondon-Essex 2023. Building on last year’s funding, it will continue to provide vital support to cycling initiatives across the county, as well as recognise the many ways residents wish to get moving. Therefore, the funds will also help groups who are encouraging people from all walks of life to engage in physical activity, however it suits them.” For more information about our funding in Essex, visit activeessex.org .