£1 million awarded to Inspire Activity in Essex £1 million awarded to Inspire Activity in Essex The London Marathon Charitable Trust (now the London Marathon Foundation) has today announced it has awarded funding of £1 million to inspire activity in communities right across Essex over the next year. This funding has been made possible thanks to the exciting new partnership between RideLondon and Essex County Council, meaning Essex has become one of The Trust’s (now the London Marathon Foundation’s) core funding areas. Two new grants totalling up to £1 million have been awarded to Active Essex and The Active Essex Foundation, whose expertise will help this funding support impactful organisations and projects right across the county, creating more opportunities for everyone to participate in physical activity. Plans for the funding include promoting active travel and cycling in schools and communities, including areas along the RideLondon-Essex event route; expanding the Essex Pedal Power programme, making cycling more accessible for everyone; and supporting a new Essex-wide open grants programme for projects that will help residents lead active and healthy lives. Catherine Anderson, Executive Director at The London Marathon Charitable Trust (now the London Marathon Foundation), said: “Essex is a brand-new core funding area for us, and we’re thrilled to be able to award the first two grants as part of our new funding strategy and to celebrate the new partnership between Essex and RideLondon. “Organisations and groups across Essex are already doing fantastic work to help more people have greater access to sport and physical activities, and we can’t wait to see the impact our partnership with Active Essex and The Active Essex Foundation will have over the next year.” Councillor Lee Scott, Essex County Council’s Cabinet Member for Highways Maintenance and Sustainable Transport , said: “We are delighted that through our partnership with RideLondon, Essex County Council has been able to unlock more funding to support cycling, sport and physical activity across the county. This funding will lead to healthier communities and supports our Safer, Greener, Healthier Active Travel plans to make walking and cycling more accessible to Essex residents.” Active Essex and The Active Essex Foundation will be managing the administration and delivery of The Trust’s funding in Essex over the next year. Look out for more details on their website, activeessex.org , and socials in the coming weeks. Note: Updated in March 2023 with references to the London Marathon Foundation’s new name.