Terms of Use Thank you for accessing the London Marathon Group ( LMG ) websites (the LMG Sites ) and applications ( Mobile Apps ). Please read these Terms of Use before using the LMG Sites, which are operated by London Marathon Events Limited, Marathon House, 190 Great Dover Street, London SE1 4YB (" we ", " us " or " our "). The LMG Sites currently include: londonmarathonfoundation.org londonmarathongroup.org londonmarathonevents.co.uk By using the LMG Sites, you signify your acceptance of these terms and conditions in consideration of which we provide you with access. From time to time, we may modify these terms and conditions so please continue to review them whenever accessing or using the LMG Sites. If at any time you do not wish to accept the terms, you may not use the LMG Sites. From time to time, we may run competitions and promotions via the LMG Sites. Where applicable, separate terms and conditions will be posted, governing such competitions and promotions. While we have endeavoured to ensure the accuracy of information on the LMG Sites, we do not guarantee or give any warranty as to the accuracy, timeliness or completeness of any information or material on LMG Sites. LMG Sites and the Content are provided "as is", without any warranties of any kind unless specifically stated. Please note that some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion of implied warranties, so some or all of the above exclusions may not apply to you. We have no control over, or responsibility for, websites to which LMG Sites are linked. Your use of such resources is at your sole risk. The LMG Sites, including text, content, software, video, sound, graphics, photographs, illustrations, artwork, names, logos, trademarks, service marks and other material ("Content") is protected by copyrights, trade marks and / or other proprietary rights. The Content includes both content owned or controlled by us, and content owned or controlled by third parties and licensed to us. All articles, reports and other elements making up LMG Sites may be copyright works. You acquire no rights or licences in or to LMG Sites and / or the Content other than the limited right to use LMG Sites in accordance with these terms and conditions and to download no more than one copy of LMG Sites for your personal, non-commercial use. As part of the Mobile App functionality for the Mini Marathon, parents of participants can attach a child’s name to the appropriate bib number to better track their family members. This is at the discretion of the parent, and LMG accepts no responsibility for the security of the children’s names. The name is not copied or transferred in any way to LMG's systems and purely resides on the mobile device. Care should be taken when viewing names on a mobile phone to ensure that this information remains confidential at all times. You acknowledge that access to LMG Sites is provided free of charge. If you are dissatisfied with LMG Sites, these terms and conditions or any of the Content your sole remedy is to discontinue use of the LMG Sites. Save in respect of fraud and of personal injury or death to the extent it results from our negligence, we accept no liability to you whatsoever whether based on warranty, contract, tort (including negligence) or otherwise. Applicable law may not allow the limitation or exclusion of liability for consequential or incidental damages, so this limitation or exclusion may not apply to you. LMG Website is not directed at any person in any jurisdiction where for any reason the publication or availability of LMG Sites is prohibited. Those in respect of whom such prohibitions apply must not access the LMG Sites. We do not represent that either the LMG Sites or the Content are appropriate for use or permitted by local laws in all jurisdictions. Those who access the LMG Sites do so on their own initiative and are responsible for compliance with applicable local laws or regulations; legal advice should be sought in cases of doubt. You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold us harmless from and against any claims, actions, demands or other proceedings brought against us by a third party, to the extent that such claim, suit, action or other proceeding brought against us is based on or arises in connection with your use of the LMG Sites, any breach by you of these terms and conditions or a claim that your use of the LMG Sites infringes any intellectual property rights of any third party or is libellous or defamatory, or otherwise results in injury or damage to any third party. The terms are governed by the laws of England and Wales and the parties submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.