London Marathon Foundation and UK Sport announce £90,000 collaborative funding to Inspire Activity in the West Midlands We’re excited to be teaming up with UK Sport to provide £90,000 of collaborative funding to inspire and increase physical activity across the West Midlands, supporting the legacy of the 2026 European Athletics Championships in Birmingham. The announcement came as part of the launch event for the Birmingham 2026 Impact programme, ‘Beyond’, on Tuesday 29 July 2025 at Alexander Stadium. The London Marathon Foundation and UK Sport have each awarded £45,000 towards the joint initiative, which will fund projects organised by two of UK Sport’s delivery partners: Access Sport and StreetGames. Both organisations will focus on creating more inclusive opportunities for underserved children and young people to participate in sport and physical activity in the build-up to, and beyond, Birmingham 2026. Mike Diaper , Group Funding and Impact Director at the London Marathon Foundation , said: “We’re proud to be launching this collaborative funding with UK Sport, aimed at inspiring lasting activity in the West Midlands. With the 2026 European Athletics Championships in Birmingham on the horizon, this funding is about more than a single event – it’s about providing inclusive, community-rooted opportunities that will inspire children and young people to develop an enjoyment of sport and physical activity that will last a lifetime.” Creating lasting impact for underserved communities Access Sport will partner with five local athletics clubs across the region to create new disability and social inclusion programmes – aiming to make activities more accessible and welcoming for people who may not have previously been able to participate. StreetGames will use the funding to deliver a series of affordable, accessible, social sport sessions for underserved young people, running alongside their wider Inspiration Campaign, to encourage young people to participate, volunteer and watch sport – all tied to the excitement of Birmingham 2026. Esther Britten, Head of Events and External Affairs at UK Sport , said: “The hosting of major events has a unique platform to power positive change. UK Sport believes the right partnerships deliver meaningful, positive and lasting social impact. “The Beyond programme and our collaborative partnership with London Marathon Foundation, alongside Access Sport and StreetGames, have the potential to make a real difference in local communities. The staging of the 2026 European Athletics Championships can leave a lasting legacy in Birmingham and the West Midlands and the nation as a whole.” Our vision at the Foundation is to Inspire Activity, and we’re excited to see the impact this funding will have in supporting children and young people across the West Midlands to lead active and healthy lives.