Home About the Foundation Who we are Causes we support Introduction Education Civil Society Non-Strategic Past Giving Introduction Education Civil Society Non-Strategic Past Giving Grant recipients Apply for funding University of Cape Town We have been supporting doctoral and masters students at the University of Cape Town since 2003. Our grants have supported the development of graduates who will support and nurture civil society in South Africa. The fellows’ disciplines are broad and varied and include engineering, humanities, business studies, economics, politics, law, psychology and the sciences. In addition to their academic work fellows take part in postgraduate and public seminars, develop leadership skills, and participate actively in community initiatives. Munirah Mangerah was one of our fellows, who studied for a Masters degree in clinical psychology. She looked at the impact of caregiving on grandmothers caring for children who were orphaned or vulnerable because of HIV/AIDS. “The fellowship provided an invaluable opportunity to interact with students from various disciplines. The planning and execution of the seminar programme was exciting and challenging: it brought together people interested in the field of ageing from various strata, including academia, Non–Governmental Organisations, local health care workers, and local and national government... I am appreciative to the fellowship for granting me the opportunity to benefit from such an enriching experience.” Munirah Mangerah, fellow Details of the scholars we have supported can be found on www.potterfellows.org The Potter Fellowships are administered by the University of Cape Town and not by us. If you have any questions about the Fellowships, or want to know how to apply, then please contact the Postgraduate Centre & Funding Office at UCT. Scholarship essays Below are a small selection of essays submitted to UCT by students who applied successfully for our scholarships. They give a feel for the wide range of subjects covered, and for the deep commitment of the students to contributing to civil society as a result of their further studies. The importance of civil society in democratic South Africa Patricia Zweig Contribution to civil society Naadiya Moosajee Purpose, or On training to teach theatre voice Darron Araujo My contribution to civil society in South Africa Langelihle Malimela My intended role in civil society Celeste Coetzee How I intend to contribute to civil society Julia Garlick Purpose Umeshree Govender Solidarity, regionalism and difference Shannon Morreira In 2015 the Potter Fellowships Alumni Committee undertook a ten year review of the Fellowships. Their final publication can be viewed here Further information www.uct.ac.za www.potterfellows.org