Home About the Foundation Who we are Causes we support Introduction Education Civil Society Non-Strategic Past Giving Introduction Education Civil Society Non-Strategic Past Giving Grant recipients Apply for funding Apply for funding Please note that applications are strictly by our invitation only. We do not accept or consider uninvited or unsolicited applications. If you think your work may fit our remit you should email us to discuss your potential eligibility and whether it is something that we may fund. Please do not send written correspondence. Our funding ethos We are secular and non-political. The majority of our grants will be used to support projects in Education and Civil Society . We recognise the benefits of unrestricted funding and we will consider providing grants which are not restricted to the direct costs of a particular project or programme and which can be used for general core costs. We are willing to provide multi-year grants up to a maximum of three years where the needs of the programme or organisation require it. We are willing to enter into co-funding partnerships with other grant making organisations. Geographical focus Our strategy is to fund organisations in the UK. Please note that we are no longer considering applications for funding in South Africa. Eligibility We do fund: registered charities and educational institutions We do not fund: individuals community Interest Companies retrospective costs Full Economic Costs for universities political organisations clinical trials religious organisations that work only for the benefit of members of their own religion non-profit companies capital works building or rebuilding schools individual schools or school projects school equipment scaling up projects bursaries for individual school children / undergraduate education civic education / citizenship education programmes People who wish to apply for scholarships or fellowships funded by us should apply directly to those universities where we have awarded a grant for that purpose and not to the Foundation. Contact us If you wish to make an enquiry about your eligibility please send an email to: info@potterfoundation.com . Grant reports We require grant recipients to provide regular reports depending on the size and duration of the grant. Normally we require a report one year after the grant was awarded and/or upon its completion. For multi-year grants, we expect annual reports. Some terms and conditions relating to an award might specify additional reporting requirements. We expect to be asked about any proposed changes in the use of a grant before they take place to ensure that they are in line with our charitable objects. Grant reports We require grant recipients to provide regular reports depending on the size and duration of the grant. Normally we require a report one year after the grant was awarded and/or upon its completion. For multi-year grants, we expect annual reports. Some terms and conditions relating to an award might specify additional reporting requirements. We expect to be asked about any proposed changes in the use of a grant before they take place to ensure that they are in line with our charitable objects.