Our work in action Here, you’ll find case studies on some of the research and community awards we’ve previously made, as well as some which are in progress. You can search more of our academic and clinical research grant awards and the resulting publications on Europe PubMed Central . Stories from our award-holders Investing in organisations: The Capability Development Programme Funded by the Vivensa Foundation, the Capability Development Programme provides expert learning, peer support, and practical grants to community-led organisations — giving leaders the confidence and tools they need to move forward. International Day of Older People: How we build belonging, today and every day As the UK’s only charitable funder focused entirely on supporting the research and social innovation needed for ageing well, the International Day of Older People is something we at the Vivensa Foundation can get behind Shaping science together: Patient, carer and public involvement and engagement in ageing research How can science and lived experience work hand-in-hand to create better outcomes for older adults? We spoke to three Vivensa-funded researchers about the power of patient, carer and public involvement and engagement (PPIE). We talk Events recordings and reports​ If you’re unable to attend an in-person event to hear about our award-holders’ work, we aim to make recordings and short summaries available here, together with links to related material and resources. Explore upcoming and past events and talks​ Masterclass: How to build a supportive network Masterclass: How to mentor effectively in Academia Early Career Researchers’ meeting 19 November 2025 Collaborations We like to collaborate with other organisations that share our vision. We believe that by combining our resources and actively looking for partners with complementary capabilities, we can achieve so much more – and in the process, contribute to our own learning and development and that of the communities we serve. View collaborative work​ Our combined commitment to actively involve older people in research The Chief Medical Officer for England’s 2023 Annual Report on Health in an Ageing Society identified that more research needs to include older people. As a result of this, the Vivensa Foundation has joined a Putting VCSE-researcher-public sector partnerships at the heart of ageing research By funding projects that bring together academic researchers and community organisations, we aim to foster collaborations that result in real-world impact for communities of older people. Introducing our 2024 Joint RNID / Vivensa Foundation Fellow We are delighted to introduce Przemyslaw (Prez) Jarzebowski as the sixth recipient of our Joint Fellowship with the RNID.