About us We like to invest in those who have great ideas and methods for improving the health and well-being of older people and in making the connections which can help them to flourish. We do this through both grant-making and social investment and through convening networks of support like the Vivensa Academy and the UK Ageing Research Funders’ Forum and supporting UK AgeNet. You can find our Strategic Framework here, along with details of our people (staff, committee members and trustees), our policies and governance structure and our history. Our Strategic Framework Our Strategic Framework sets out the values that drive us, what we do and who we support. We refresh and re-publish it every five years and set out our priorities for funding for the five-year period. You can explore our current plans and framework here. Our people The charity is run by a staff team of eight, led by the Chief Executive who reports to the Board of Trustees. There are currently twelve Board members who can each serve up to two four-year terms of office and meet four times per year. Reporting to the Board are three Committees: Research Grants Committee, Social Financing Committee and Investment Committee. Trustee committee members are assisted by a number of independent advisers who have professional expertise appropriate to the Committee they serve. Click on the relevant category below to see Board and Committee members and on their images for career biographies and contact details. Susan Kay Sue is a strategic planning and governance specialist having spent the first half of her career in private sector finance, strategic marketing and corporate transformation roles. Some pro bono work assisting universities with commercialising their intellectual property led to a sabbatical to undertake a Master’s degree in science policy and innovation and she has since served on the executive board of a number of UK higher education institutions in senior strategy, finance and planning roles and as a non executive on the Board of a college of further education and in two charitable research funding organisations. Immediately prior to taking the helm at the Foundation, she combined heading up a national academic network of senior scientists and engineers with being governance lead for an almshouse trust providing accommodation and community support for older people. A former member of the Development Board at Shakespeare North and a qualified yacht skipper, in her spare time can usually be found in the vicinity of a boat or in her book-bindery. Contact E : susan.kay@vivensafoundation.org.uk Sarah Allport As Head of Communities and Governance, Sarah is responsible for managing our community funding programmes and special initiatives, working closely with partner organisations on our programmatic work. She is responsible for the running of the Academy and also takes the lead on Governance and Foundation-wide policy matters. A highly experienced grants administration professional, Sarah has spent over 20 years working with charities and membership bodies and is currently a Trustee of the McCarthy Stone Foundation. She has been with the Foundation since 2010, having joined from the British Geriatrics Society. When not in the office Sarah is a keen runner and tries to return home to her native Yorkshire as much as possible. Contact E: sarah.allport@vivensafoundation.org.uk T: 0207 871 5401 Dr Sanjay Thakrar Sanjay is the primary point of contact for organisations seeking funding for research from the Vivensa Foundation. He has over 15 years’ experience in the delivery and management of research funding, and previously worked at the Myrovlytis Trust, the British Heart Foundation and Marie Curie. From this he has gained extensive experience of grants management, including the monitoring and reporting of research outputs, outcomes and impact. He has also led on initiatives related to patient, carer and public involvement in research. Before embarking on a career in grants management, Sanjay graduated from the University of Cambridge with a degree in Natural Sciences, then worked as a Research Assistant at the Medical Research Council’s National Institute for Medical Research, before completing a joint MSc/PhD programme at the University of Edinburgh. When not working, Sanjay enjoys travelling, as well as spending time with friends and family at home in London. Contact E : sanjay.thakrar@vivensafoundation.org.uk T : 020 7871 5403 Oliver Soutar Oli is a graduate of the University of Bristol where he received an MSc(i) in Biology. Having joined the Foundation on the Charityworks training programme, he went on to complete his further training and development as a Grants Officer and was promoted to Grants Manager, managing a portfolio of research grant awards. He is also working on a number of strategic projects to help us to more widely communicate the impact of our work and develop closer relationships with our grant-holders. If the sun is out (some rain is permitted!) then there's a good chance you'll find him at the allotment. Contact E: oliver@vivensafoundation.org.uk T: 0207 871 5406 Dr Gordon Bruce Gordon studied Pharmacy at the University of Reading before completing a Masters in Research focussing on drug sciences at UCL. He then moved to Nottingham where he completed his PhD which focussed on the improvement of advanced drug delivery systems. He joined the Foundation in 2021 and in 2022 was promoted to Grants Manager. In his spare time he enjoys reading, running, and playing golf. Contact E : gordon.bruce@vivensafoundation.org.uk T : 0207 871 5404 Andrew Gnaneswaran Andy is responsible for helping the Foundation to invest its endowment with an impact-conscious approach, across public and private market asset classes, alongside social investments. Prior to joining the Vivensa Foundation, Andy worked at several foundations developing blended-finance funds and supporting the roll-out of impact investing strategies. Andy started off his career working within risk-management at Goldman Sachs obtaining his chartered accountancy qualification, before spending some time in international development in Africa. Andy is a keen amateur footballer and can be found most Saturdays on a (mostly wet and windy) pitch for his local club, Wandsworth Borough. Contact E : andrew.gnaneswaran@vivensafoundation.org.uk T : 0207 871 5405 Dr Pedro Jacob Pedro studied Evolutionary and Development Biology as an undergraduate, and researched the evolution of cricket songs and its neural mechanisms for his Ph.D. This was followed by a postdoc investigating neural circuit properties of memory-directed behaviour. He joined the Trust in 2024 as a Grants Officer. In his spare time he enjoys hiking, travelling, going to gigs and practising Muay Thai. Contact E : pedro.jacob@vivensafoundation.org.uk T : 0207 871 5402 Rebecca Perl Becca is a copywriter and communications specialist with undergraduate and postgraduate English degrees. She started her career in Munich as a writer and editor for educational language magazines. Five years later, back in the UK, Becca was appointed Communications Manager at a university where she was responsible for creating and implementing communications strategies for nine academic departments. She went on to run her own copywriting and communications company for 11 years, working with local and international clients across many sectors. Her ability to distil complicated information into clear, concise and engaging copy attracted a lot of STEM clients, from universities to the Royal Society. Becca recently fulfilled a long-held dream to write and illustrate her family’s story. Her kids’ picture book Don’t Look Back was published by The Book Guild in 2024. Professor Deborah Dunn-Walters FRSB (Chair) Deborah Dunn-Walters is Professor of Immunology at the University of Surrey. Her group studies B cell development in Health and Disease, taking a systems immunology approach to elucidate changes in humoral immunity with age. Her lab develops improved tools to study immune repertoires, including novel methods for single cell analysis at a large scale and particularly as applied to elucidating the immunological responses to SARS-CoV-2 and other respiratory infections. She has collaborated with many different laboratories worldwide, and has chaired several international B cell conferences. Deborah encourages interdisciplinary ways of working and is particularly keen to support discovery research into the biology of ageing. She sits on various UKRI Strategy and funding panels, is a Visiting Professor of Immunobiology at King's College London and is a Trustee for the British Society for Immunology and chairs the BSI Taskforce. Mike Bellamy Mike grew up in London and graduated from London University. After teaching in a coed Grammar School for three years, he joined the NHS, where he worked in it for 36 years, 18 of which were as a CEO. He has since been on three NHS Boards as a non executives as well as being a Governor on two University Boards. Mike has a longstanding interest in research and innovation as well as in education and training and has sat on the Boards of a number of health charities. He is Deputy Chairman of the local branch of the U3A and so is very interested in improving the well-being of older people. He is also a school governor as well as being a Mental Health Act manager. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Professor Bernard Conway Bernie holds an Emeritus Chair in Biomedical Engineering at the University of Strathclyde where he served as Vice Dean Research for the Faculty of Engineering (2018-2021) and Head of Biomedical Engineering (2007-2014). His primary research interests, which have been supported by a broad range of funders and collaborators from both the UK and internationally, are on the control and recovery of movement following neurological trauma and disease and his past work has created insights into rehabilitation strategies and informed fundamental studies on motor circuits and event coding in the nervous system. In the support of building research capacity and capability, he has been actively involved in supporting UKRI funding agencies in various advisory capacities linked to bioengineering, health technologies and ageing and has chaired a range of grant panels for EPSRC, The Wellcome Trust, Medical Research Scotland and Spinal Research. In addition, he has supported Medical Research Scotland and the Institute of Physics and Medicine in Engineering (IPEM) as a Trustee and Board member. He currently is a member of IPEMs Fellowship Panel. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Dominic Jones Dominic has worked across the public, private and third sectors, focusing on how social innovation can be harnessed to support health and wellbeing. Starting his career working in the healthcare practice of the management consultancy McKinsey & Company, he left to take up a place on the social enterprise leadership programme On Purpose, which he later helped to run. In his current role with the NHS in London, he has been developing approaches to support local health systems to work more effectively in partnership with voluntary sector, charity and social enterprise organisations in order to improve population health and tackle health inequalities. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Eren Osman Eren started his career in financial services in 2003 joining Arbuthnot Latham in 2012 where he sits on the Tactical Asset Allocation Committee, taking a key role in investment decisions on behalf of the bank’s clients. As Head of Fixed Income, he also leads the US Equity research functions. Eren works with a number of private clients, family offices and charities in seeking to deliver the investment objectives via diversified discretionary management portfolios. Having graduated in Economics from the University of West of England, he holds the IMC and CFA qualifications. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Professor Carmel Hughes Carmel Hughes is Professor of Primary Care at the School of Pharmacy, Queen’s University Belfast. She was the first pharmacist to have been appointed to a Harkness Fellowship in Healthcare Policy, the only pharmacist to receive a Primary Care Career Scientist Award and a former Cochrane Fellow. Her research interests centre on prescribing in older people, intervention development and evidence-based healthcare. She is an Editor for the Effective Practice and Organisation of Care (EPOC) Cochrane review group and Senior Editor for Pilot and Feasibility Studies. She has been a member of the United Kingdom (UK) Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 Sub-panel 3. She is currently a member of the International Scientific Council (ISC) of the Louvain Drug Research Institute (LDRI, the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland School of Pharmacy and Biomolecular Sciences External Advisory Board and the International Advisory Board of the School for Primary Care Research (funded by the National Institute for Health Research-NIHR). Carmel is a Trustee and Board Member of the Dunhill Medical Trust, a leading UK charity which funds research focusing on older people, a member of the NIHR Programme Grants for Applied Research Stage 2 Sub-Committee and a non-Executive Director of the Belfast Health and Social Care Trust. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Professor Rose Gilroy Rose Gilroy is Professor of Ageing, Planning and Policy in the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape, Newcastle University. Rose’s work explores how home and neighbourhood supports the quality of later life. As an academic situated in Planning, she is interested in the transactional relationship between people and their place, embracing how people individually and collectively may influence their environments. She is the author of a large body of published work including Planning for an Ageing Society , published in February 2021 by Lund Humphries in their series `Concise Guides To Planning`. Rose is committed to change and much of her work is action-oriented. In 2016 she brought together the group who evolved to become the Future Homes Alliance Community Interest Company with plans to develop affordable multi- generational dwellings in Newcastle. Rose is Chair of Newcastle Age Friendly City. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk T Clark T (they / them) is the Director of Private Markets at Guy’s & St Thomas’ Foundation, a health-focused charitable foundation based in London. They previously spent over a decade at the Church Commissioners, the Church of England’s endowment fund, as well as sitting on the investment committee for the Corporation of Church House. T holds a MA (Cantab) in Philosophy from the University of Cambridge. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Dr Martin Turner MAE Martin Turner studied Biochemistry at UCL and for his PhD with Professor Sir Marc Feldmann in London where he contributed to basic science that underpinned the development of anti-TNF therapy for Rheumatoid Arthritis. He subsequently worked with Victor Tybulewicz at the MRC National Institute for Medical Research where they discovered mechanisms of cell signalling that underpinned immune cell activation. He has been at the BBSRC’s Babraham Institute since 1997 where he has been the head of the Immunology Programme since 2005. Recent work by his group seeks to understand how RNA-based mechanisms control the development and function of lymphocytes; these are the cells which provide immunological memory and are thus essential for vaccine mediated immunity. He is interested in a class of genes called RNA-binding proteins and how these function to control cell differentiation, immunity, and immunological memory. This basic research has translational applications in cell-based therapies and vaccine design. Martin has worked extensively with charities and Government agencies to review research activities. In 2020 he was elected to membership of the Academia Europaea an award conferred by the Academia Europaea to individuals that have demonstrated "sustained academic excellence”. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Professor Jill Manthorpe CBE Jill is Professor Emerita of Social Work at King's College London and an NIHR Senior Investigator Emerita. She has been involved in advisory work for the Department of Health and Social Care on several subjects and has worked closely with several social care and health sector employers to link research, policy and practice. She has presented research findings to international conferences in Australia, Singapore, Norway and Northern Ireland; she has also travelled widely in the UK to speak with local and regional networks, mainly through Making Research Count. She has provided assistance on workforce matters to local councils, NHS bodies, and employers on a pro bono basis and to user, carer and patient groups about evidence and communications. She has provided expert advice to NICE and to other NHS Arm's Length Bodies about care services and workforce initiatives. Jill was appointed Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences in March 2015 and is also a Trustee of the Order of St John Care Trust and of the Centre for Policy on Ageing and Patron of the Greater London Forum of Older People. Russell Jones Russell is a senior leader with over a decade of experience working in and for local government and the NHS – predominantly in roles driving innovative health, social care, housing, and community partnerships. He is currently the Assistant Director for Integrated Commissioning at the London Borough of Southwark and South East London Integrated Care Board. Russell started his career as a frontline youth worker and subsequently progressed into operational management, commissioning, and consultancy roles – initially in Children’s services, and subsequently spanning Adult Social Care, Public Health, Community Health, Education, and Housing. In addition to his current role, Russell is a Visiting Fellow of Practice at the University of Oxford’s Government Outcomes Lab, supporting their research into relational commissioning. Russell is also an accredited Peer for the Local Government Association, supporting its sector-led improvement programme, and a career mentor for the local government graduate programme. Russell is passionate about developing high quality services that support people to live and age well on their own terms. Underpinning this, he is committed to relational, evidence-based commissioning; cross-sector collaboration; and championing the role of public services in challenging inequalities. Russell holds an MA (Cantab) from the University of Cambridge. Susan Kay Sue is a strategic planning and governance specialist having spent the first half of her career in private sector finance, strategic marketing and corporate transformation roles. Some pro bono work assisting universities with commercialising their intellectual property led to a sabbatical to undertake a Master’s degree in science policy and innovation and she has since served on the executive board of a number of UK higher education institutions in senior strategy, finance and planning roles and as a non executive on the Board of a college of further education and in two charitable research funding organisations. Immediately prior to taking the helm at the Foundation, she combined heading up a national academic network of senior scientists and engineers with being governance lead for an almshouse trust providing accommodation and community support for older people. A former member of the Development Board at Shakespeare North and a qualified yacht skipper, in her spare time can usually be found in the vicinity of a boat or in her book-bindery. Contact E : susan.kay@vivensafoundation.org.uk Aidan Kearney An experienced multi-asset fund manager, understanding investment processes across a broad spectrum of asset classes, alongside portfolio construction and the application of risk management, Aidan is the Chief Investment Officer at The Health Foundation. He also sits on the Advisory Board of the Charities Property Fund. In addition to seeking to meet financial objectives, Aidan is also aware of the need for asset owners to invest responsibly through engagement. He spent over 35 years in the asset management industry managing investment funds at leading companies including Aberdeen Asset Managers where he sat on the Group Regulatory Board as well as the Aberdeen Solutions Global Strategy Group and Alternatives Strategy Committee. Prior to that he also managed funds at Credit Suisse Asset Management, Artemis Investment Management and Singer & Friedlander. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Eren Osman Eren started his career in financial services in 2003 joining Arbuthnot Latham in 2012 where he sits on the Tactical Asset Allocation Committee, taking a key role in investment decisions on behalf of the bank’s clients. As Head of Fixed Income, he also leads the US Equity research functions. Eren works with a number of private clients, family offices and charities in seeking to deliver the investment objectives via diversified discretionary management portfolios. Having graduated in Economics from the University of West of England, he holds the IMC and CFA qualifications. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Andrew Gnaneswaran Andy is responsible for helping the Foundation to invest its endowment with an impact-conscious approach, across public and private market asset classes, alongside social investments. Prior to joining the Vivensa Foundation, Andy worked at several foundations developing blended-finance funds and supporting the roll-out of impact investing strategies. Andy started off his career working within risk-management at Goldman Sachs obtaining his chartered accountancy qualification, before spending some time in international development in Africa. Andy is a keen amateur footballer and can be found most Saturdays on a (mostly wet and windy) pitch for his local club, Wandsworth Borough. Contact E : andrew.gnaneswaran@vivensafoundation.org.uk T : 0207 871 5405 T Clark T (they / them) is the Director of Private Markets at Guy’s & St Thomas’ Foundation, a health-focused charitable foundation based in London. They previously spent over a decade at the Church Commissioners, the Church of England’s endowment fund, as well as sitting on the investment committee for the Corporation of Church House. T holds a MA (Cantab) in Philosophy from the University of Cambridge. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Amelie Montague Amelie is an Investment Director at Better Society Capital, the UK’s leading financial institution dedicated to impact investing. She leads due diligence teams across asset classes and manages a £160M portfolio including affordable & supported housing, venture & growth equity and private credit funds. Prior to joining BSC, she worked at FactSet Research Systems implementing portfolio analytics, quant research and ESG solutions in the asset & wealth management divisions of bulge bracket banks. She’s a Trustee of Bexley Mencap, a charity who support people with learning disabilities, a Director of RCB Bonds, a bond issuing platform to help charities raise debt, and an IC member of Crisis Venture Studio, a high-impact pre-seed venture investor. She holds an MBA from Oxford University and is a CFA charterholder. Martin Rich Martin Rich is the Co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of Future-Fit Foundation, a non-profit focused on creating a truly sustainable future. Before this he spent seven years as Sales Director of Social Finance Ltd where he focused primarily on developing the investor base for social impact investments and also served as a member of the Asset Allocation Working Group for the G7 Social Investment Task Force. Martin previously spent over 12 years in international investment banking working on structured finance products for UBS, JPMorgan and HSBC. Martin has a passion for sustainable development and poverty relief and is engaged in a range of trustee, investment committee and advisory roles. He is a member of WHEB Asset Management’s Investment Advisory Committee, and was formerly Senior Independent Trustee and Chair of the Endowment Investment Committee for Access Foundation. Matthew Cox Matt has 30 years’ of experience in financial services including as a fund manager, equity analyst and advisor to high-net-worth individuals. Before joining the not-for-profit sector in 2013, he managed portfolios for pension funds, individuals and charities at various institutions including UBS, SG Hambros and Julius Baer. He is currently the investment director at the Esmee Fairbairn Foundation, a £1.3 billion foundation based in London, focused on UK environmental and social justice issues. He is responsible for overseeing the investment portfolio and aligning the charity’s assets with its underlying mission. He also chairs the European Foundation Financial & Investment Officers group (EFFIO), a Brussels-based collective of 25 of Europe’s largest, not-for-profit foundations. He holds the ACA, IMC and CFA qualifications and is a passionate advocate for responsible investing and the incorporation of sustainability into investment portfolios. In his spare time, he plays piano and is a member of various amateur music groups. Professor Carmel Hughes Carmel Hughes is Professor of Primary Care at the School of Pharmacy, Queen’s University Belfast. She was the first pharmacist to have been appointed to a Harkness Fellowship in Healthcare Policy, the only pharmacist to receive a Primary Care Career Scientist Award and a former Cochrane Fellow. Her research interests centre on prescribing in older people, intervention development and evidence-based healthcare. She is an Editor for the Effective Practice and Organisation of Care (EPOC) Cochrane review group and Senior Editor for Pilot and Feasibility Studies. She has been a member of the United Kingdom (UK) Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 Sub-panel 3. She is currently a member of the International Scientific Council (ISC) of the Louvain Drug Research Institute (LDRI, the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland School of Pharmacy and Biomolecular Sciences External Advisory Board and the International Advisory Board of the School for Primary Care Research (funded by the National Institute for Health Research-NIHR). Carmel is a Trustee and Board Member of the Dunhill Medical Trust, a leading UK charity which funds research focusing on older people, a member of the NIHR Programme Grants for Applied Research Stage 2 Sub-Committee and a non-Executive Director of the Belfast Health and Social Care Trust. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Dr Nicholas Rattray Nik is currently a Chancellor’s Fellow and Lecturer of Clinical Metabolism within the Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences, University of Strathclyde. He received a Ph.D. in Biophysics from the University of Manchester and has subsequently held a postdoctoral position within the Manchester Institute of Biotechnology applying mass spectrometry-based metabolomics to model frailty. He has also held a faculty-level Associate Research Scientist position within the School of Public Health at Yale University, with a focus on the use of metabolomics in large-scale population studies. He has a research focus on how metabolism dysregulates as we age and is Co-Director of the Strathclyde Centre for Molecular Bioscience. The research strategy of his group focuses on using bio-molecular mass spectrometry and metabolomics/proteomics alongside chemometrics and molecular biology techniques to develop biomarkers within the broad area of the human life-course. Overall, this strategy has developed mechanistic understanding of how different biomolecular pathways change during our ageing journeys and how these pathways modulate and dysregulate their behaviour through the accumulation of age-related stress. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Professor Stuart Gray Stuart is a Professor of Muscle and Metabolic Health within the School of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Health at the University of Glasgow. He has wide ranging interests in the importance of lifestyle (diet and physical activity) in the prevention and treatment age related conditions, such as sarcopenia and metabolic disease. He has a particular interest in strategies to maintain muscle mass and function. From a nutritional point of view, he has interests in the potential efficacy of omega-3 fatty acid supplementation. Considering physical activity, his early work has developed a pedometer-based walking intervention in the West of Scotland and more recent work has focused on interventions to help with the maintenance of muscle mass, such as resistance exercise and how we can help more older adults do this. His research ranges from epidemiological study investigating associations of lifestyle and health outcomes, to clinical trials investigating the effectiveness of lifestyle in ageing and metabolic disease, to mechanistic studies to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the effects of lifestyle on metabolic health. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Professor Dame Louise Robinson Professor Dame Louise Robinson, is an academic GP and Professor of Primary Care and Ageing at Newcastle University. She was the first GP to be awarded a prestigious NIHR Professorship, followed by a NIHR Senior Investigator award. Professor Robinson also holds a UK Regius Professorship in Ageing and was awarded a Dame hood in 2018 for services to the care and research of older people. Louise’s personal research programme is focused on improving quality of life and quality of care for older people, especially those living with dementia. She leads 1 of 3 Alzheimer Society national Centres of Excellence on Dementia Care and a NIHR Global Health group on Dementia Prevention and Care. Louise was primary care lead for the Prime Minister’s Dementia Challenge and was a member of the NICE Dementia Care Guidelines development group. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Dr Martin Turner MAE Martin Turner studied Biochemistry at UCL and for his PhD with Professor Sir Marc Feldmann in London where he contributed to basic science that underpinned the development of anti-TNF therapy for Rheumatoid Arthritis. He subsequently worked with Victor Tybulewicz at the MRC National Institute for Medical Research where they discovered mechanisms of cell signalling that underpinned immune cell activation. He has been at the BBSRC’s Babraham Institute since 1997 where he has been the head of the Immunology Programme since 2005. Recent work by his group seeks to understand how RNA-based mechanisms control the development and function of lymphocytes; these are the cells which provide immunological memory and are thus essential for vaccine mediated immunity. He is interested in a class of genes called RNA-binding proteins and how these function to control cell differentiation, immunity, and immunological memory. This basic research has translational applications in cell-based therapies and vaccine design. Martin has worked extensively with charities and Government agencies to review research activities. In 2020 he was elected to membership of the Academia Europaea an award conferred by the Academia Europaea to individuals that have demonstrated "sustained academic excellence”. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Professor Ala Szczepura Ala Szczepura is Professor of Health Technology Assessment (HTA) at Coventry University. HTA studies the effectiveness, costs, and social, legal and ethical implications of innovations. Her previous academic posts were held at the Universities of Warwick, Manchester and Oxford. Ala’s research on ageing includes: evaluation of health and social care innovations; re-design of services; patient self-management; ageing care models; and population diversity. Her work has been cited in 562 policy documents worldwide. Ala has experience on over thirty national and international research strategy, grant funding and fellowship panels. She was seconded to the NHS Executive to help establish the UK’s HTA Programme. She currently sits on the Advisory Group for Warwick Evidence , tasked with reviewing evidence presented to the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE). Ala's research is multidisciplinary and involves working closely with scientists, clinicians, end-users, policy makers and technology developers. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Dr Mariana Borsa Mariana's first steps as an immunologist started in Brazil while studying her BSc and MSc. To pursue a career as a scientist she moved to Switzerland, where she completed her PhD in immunology at ETHZ, under the supervision of Professor Annette Oxenius. There Mariana was very successful in bringing new insights into how asymmetric cell division, a conserved mechanism to generate diversity, impacts T-cell fate as a requirement for the establishment of memory. This work opened a potential new strategy to improve immune responses, especially in the context of chronic infections, tumours and ageing. For her PhD work, she was awarded the prestigious ETH Silver Medal. Mariana is currently a senior postdoctoral fellow at the University of Oxford, under the mentorship of Professor Katja Simon and Professor Mike Dustin, where she has been investigating the role of autophagy in the balance between stemness and differentiation. Her current efforts focus on understanding how organelle ageing regulates T-cell metabolism and fate decision. To develop this work, she was awarded fellowships from the Swiss National Science Foundation, Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions and Wellcome Trust. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Professor Thomas Jackson Thomas is a geriatrician and clinician scientist. He investigates cognitive disorders in general hospital settings (delirium and dementia) and how these affect both long term cognitive outcomes and the link with the ageing immune system. He works in the Immunity and Ageing (Immunesenescence) research group within the Institute of Inflammation and Ageing at the University of Birmingham. Susan Kay Sue is a strategic planning and governance specialist having spent the first half of her career in private sector finance, strategic marketing and corporate transformation roles. Some pro bono work assisting universities with commercialising their intellectual property led to a sabbatical to undertake a Master’s degree in science policy and innovation and she has since served on the executive board of a number of UK higher education institutions in senior strategy, finance and planning roles and as a non executive on the Board of a college of further education and in two charitable research funding organisations. Immediately prior to taking the helm at the Foundation, she combined heading up a national academic network of senior scientists and engineers with being governance lead for an almshouse trust providing accommodation and community support for older people. A former member of the Development Board at Shakespeare North and a qualified yacht skipper, in her spare time can usually be found in the vicinity of a boat or in her book-bindery. Contact E : susan.kay@vivensafoundation.org.uk Aidan Kearney An experienced multi-asset fund manager, understanding investment processes across a broad spectrum of asset classes, alongside portfolio construction and the application of risk management, Aidan is the Chief Investment Officer at The Health Foundation. He also sits on the Advisory Board of the Charities Property Fund. In addition to seeking to meet financial objectives, Aidan is also aware of the need for asset owners to invest responsibly through engagement. He spent over 35 years in the asset management industry managing investment funds at leading companies including Aberdeen Asset Managers where he sat on the Group Regulatory Board as well as the Aberdeen Solutions Global Strategy Group and Alternatives Strategy Committee. Prior to that he also managed funds at Credit Suisse Asset Management, Artemis Investment Management and Singer & Friedlander. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Dominic Jones Dominic has worked across the public, private and third sectors, focusing on how social innovation can be harnessed to support health and wellbeing. Starting his career working in the healthcare practice of the management consultancy McKinsey & Company, he left to take up a place on the social enterprise leadership programme On Purpose, which he later helped to run. In his current role with the NHS in London, he has been developing approaches to support local health systems to work more effectively in partnership with voluntary sector, charity and social enterprise organisations in order to improve population health and tackle health inequalities. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Evita Chiang Zanuso Evita has extensive experience in impact investing having worked for more than eight years at Big Society Capital where she co-led efforts to manage client investments and successfully listed an investment trust on the London Stock Exchange, investing in high impact private market investment opportunities that benefit people in the UK. She has served as Board Director at Retail Charity Bond plc, as a Member of the Impact Investment Advisory Council for British Venture Capital & Private Equity Association and as a working group member on two Government backed initiatives on Growing a Culture of Social Impact Investing in the UK. Currently Head of Strategic Partnerships at Katapult Foundation and Lead for the Nordic Impact Investing Academy, she is a Steering Group Member at Women in Social Finance. Prior to impact investing, Evita worked for 10 years in financial services and asset management in product development and business development roles. Evita has a BA in Politics with Economics from Goldsmiths College, University of London, and a MBA from Imperial College Business School. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Professor Rose Gilroy Rose Gilroy is Professor of Ageing, Planning and Policy in the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape, Newcastle University. Rose’s work explores how home and neighbourhood supports the quality of later life. As an academic situated in Planning, she is interested in the transactional relationship between people and their place, embracing how people individually and collectively may influence their environments. She is the author of a large body of published work including Planning for an Ageing Society , published in February 2021 by Lund Humphries in their series `Concise Guides To Planning`. Rose is committed to change and much of her work is action-oriented. In 2016 she brought together the group who evolved to become the Future Homes Alliance Community Interest Company with plans to develop affordable multi- generational dwellings in Newcastle. Rose is Chair of Newcastle Age Friendly City. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk T Clark T (they / them) is the Director of Private Markets at Guy’s & St Thomas’ Foundation, a health-focused charitable foundation based in London. They previously spent over a decade at the Church Commissioners, the Church of England’s endowment fund, as well as sitting on the investment committee for the Corporation of Church House. T holds a MA (Cantab) in Philosophy from the University of Cambridge. Contact: admin@vivensafoundation.org.uk Vacancies We’re a highly collaborative team. We like to plan and be prepared, but we also like to be flexible and responsive to new ideas. We’re committed to making our contribution to understanding what it takes to improve health outcomes in later life and to the much-needed systemic change in health and social care for older people – so we want to work with people who share that commitment. We list our current vacancies and other opportunities to work with us here. Reports Vivensa Foundation files its Trustees’ Report and Accounts with the Charity Commission for England and Wales and with Companies House. You can find the most recent here. We have also carried out a review of the Plan Period 2020-25 and you can read all about it in this report (click through to the back page if you’d prefer to download it as a pdf). Governance and policies Our Articles of Association (pdf) is the constitutional document which sets out our charitable objects and our governing regulations. The Vivensa Foundation accepts that organisations and individuals should be able to make complaints regarding any unsatisfactory aspects of its working practice. The purpose of this procedure is to set out a process for dealing with complaints which is fair and aims to resolve issues which may arise as quickly and reasonably as possible. The charity aims to ensure that its grant-making reflects best practice and reserves the right to determine how it carries out its work. It does, however, accept that from time to time issues might arise which may need to be resolved as a result of the charity’s interaction with grant applicants and grant holders, and other external individuals and organisations. Download our Complaints Procedure (pdf) IT Security Our IT security is important to us and we are Cyber Essentials accredited. Information Security Policy (pdf) Compliance Policy (pdf) Outsourcing and third party compliance Policy (pdf) Information Handling Policy (pdf) User and Password Management Policy (pdf) Acceptable Use Policy (pdf) Software Management Policy (pdf) Mobile Computing and Remote Working Policy (pdf) Data protection The Vivensa Foundation holds personal data about its employees, Trustees and Committee members, grant holders, suppliers and other individuals for a variety of purposes relating to delivery of its charitable objectives. It seeks to adhere to the principles of data protection legislation, in particular to meet the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) effective May 2018 and updated subsequently by UK GDPR, which came into effect on 1 January, 2021. This policy sets out how the charity seeks to protect personal data and ensure that its staff, Trustees and external advisors understand the rules governing their use of personal data to which they have access in the course of their work. In particular, this policy requires staff to ensure that the Chief Executive is consulted before any significant new data processing activity is initiated to ensure that relevant compliance steps are addressed. Any breach, whether deliberate or through negligence, may lead to disciplinary action being taken. Download our Data protection policy (22-10) (pdf) Our Privacy Notice is intended help our stakeholders to understand what information we collect about them, how we use it, how we protect any information that they give us and what choices they have. Equality and diversity policy The work we fund means that we know all too well the negative impacts of inequity. We are therefore committed to promoting equity, diversity and inclusion in all areas of our work. We recognise the inherent benefits of having a diverse board and workforce and the negative impact of discrimination on us and the communities that we serve. We work hard to promote a culture of respect and dignity and work within the practice – and the spirit – of the Equalities Act 2010. We do our very best to proactively combat behaviours and barriers that can lead to discrimination. Our equality and diversity policy is in three parts: The charity as a funder. The charity as an employer. The charity as a partner. Download our Equality and Diversity Policy (pdf) . We also have a Board Diversity Action Plan (pdf) which was approved by the Board in June 2022 and is subject to regular review. Please note, we do not publish numbers and targets relating to our equality and diversity policy. While we collect data (where we have permission to do so) and monitor it to use it in our planning and decision-making, to publish it would risk making special category data about individuals identifiable owing to our size. Modern Slavery statement The Vivensa Foundation has a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery, and we strive to act ethically and with integrity in all of our business dealings and relationships to ensure that modern slavery is not taking place anywhere in our own organisation. We will also ensure our approach and stance is clear with our partners, applicants and award-holders. Download our Statement on Modern Slavery (pdf) Safeguarding policy Organisations that work regularly with vulnerable people (children or adults at risk, their parents, carers or families) need to comply with safeguarding legislation and best practice recommendations. While the charity does not work directly with groups defined by the Care Act 2014 as vulnerable, it expects and requires organisations who do and which it funds, or with which it collaborates, to have suitable policies and mechanisms in place to prevent and address incidents of exploitation, abuse or harm. Download our safeguarding policy (pdf). Staff handbook The health and well-being of our small staff team is hugely important to us. Our Staff Handbook sets out all of our HR-related policies, including our sector-leading family-friendly (parental and carer’s leave) policies and our pay and benefits. Download our Staff handbook 25-04 (pdf) We are a Living Wage Employer . Find out more Financial and governance history of the Vivensa Foundation Herbert E. Dunhill (1882-1950) was a British businessman who was a Director in his family’s business, Alfred Dunhill Ltd, which was named after his brother. On his death, Herbert left shares in this business in a charitable trust to be used for medical research. Tuberculosis had been the cause of his ill health throughout much of his life. This trust later became a registered charity and who we are today. We share our history, alongside the origin and evolution of our endowment and its stewardship and governance, to acknowledge the investments we’ve had in the past and to stay accountable for what we invest in now and in the future. Summary Our endowment originates from a personal legacy from Herbert E.Dunhill in the form of shares in his family’s business, Alfred Dunhill Ltd, of which he was a Director. Alfred Dunhill Ltd was known for its range of luxury leather goods, motoring accessories, tobacco and pipes, and, over the years, the company derived substantial profit from tobacco and related products. The assets from the Will Trust of Herbert E. Dunhill were transferred into a new charity called The Dunhill Medical Trust in 1988. Ageing related research had been added as a charitable object around this time. The charity’s shares in Alfred Dunhill Ltd started to be disposed of in 1989 and in their entirety by 1998, and no direct investment in tobacco stocks has been made since. The proceeds from the sale of the shares were re-invested in a diversified portfolio of stocks, shares, bonds, and property. Investments in collective funds that contained tobacco stocks started to be disposed of during the 2010s, and our investment portfolio has been free from indirect tobacco exposure since 2020. Today’s charity now has clear tobacco and fossil fuel exclusions in its Investment Policy . As a health research funder, the Vivensa Foundation has no connection with the tobacco industry and complies fully with the Joint Protocol of Cancer Research and Universities UK on Tobacco Industry Funding to Universities (2004) . The charity was derived from a personal legacy and has never been a corporate foundation of Alfred Dunhill Ltd, Dunhill Holdings Plc or any related subsidiaries. Our origin 1950 : Hebert E. Dunhill dies. He was a director in the family business – Alfred Dunhill Ltd. Herbert leaves his assets in a Will Trust to support his wife Violet and other family members. His wishes were that, after Violet’s death, a substantial part of the Will Trust should be used for the furtherance of medical knowledge and research, in light of his own experience of ill-health resulting from the effects of tuberculosis. 1961 : Herbert’s niece, Mary Dunhill Lane, is appointed one of the original Trustees of the Will Trust, alongside her brother, also called Alfred Dunhill, and Samuel Cash. It is largely Mary’s vision that drove the Charity until her death in 1988. In 1961, Mary Dunhill Lane is appointed company Chair of Alfred Dunhill Ltd, having been a Director since 1943. 1963 : Violet Dunhill dies, and the second part of Herbert’s Will Trust comes into effect. Shares in Alfred Dunhill Ltd, we believe worth around £250,000, are put into Charitable Trust for medical research and so the Trust becomes a substantial shareholder in Alfred Dunhill Ltd. Re-directing our mission to ageing-related research 1980s : By the 1980s, the Will Trust is receiving an increasing number of applications for research and support associated with ageing and the care of older people. Although there is a clear case of unmet need, many applications cannot be supported because they fall outside the aims of the Trust. 1986 : With the agreement of the Charity Commissioners, the funds comprising the Charitable Trust previously contained in Herbert E. Dunhill’s will are reconstituted and the charitable objects broadened to include research into the care of older people and the provision of accommodation and care for older people. 1988 : Mary Dunhill Lane dies and her daughter, Kay Glendinning, continues her work as Executive Director of The Dunhill Medical Trust. By a scheme dated 15 April, 1988, The Charity Commissioners direct that the assets previously administered under the Will Trust of Herbert Dunhill be administered and managed as part of the property of a charity called The Dunhill Medical Trust. Disposing of our direct tobacco-related investments 1989 : The shares in Alfred Dunhill Ltd are disposed of in tranches over time. The charity begins diversifying the investment portfolio by adding property and other UK equity funds, followed by overseas equity and global bonds in the early 1990s. 1994 : All of the remaining shares in Alfred Dunhill Ltd, now worth c.£5M, are converted into Rothmans shares and Vendôme Luxury Group shares as a result of the corporate re-structuring of Dunhill Holdings Plc. All of the Rothmans shares and some of the Vendôme shares are sold by the charity immediately, and the remainder are sold off in tranches, year by year, until 1998. 1997 : The Cancer Research Campaign publishes its consultation paper ‘Breaking addiction to tobacco funding’. This consultation goes on to establish the policy that grant making bodies will not fund any research team in receipt of, or sharing resources with those in receipt of, tobacco industry funding. 1998 : The remaining shares in the Vendôme Luxury Group are disposed of fully. No direct investment in tobacco stocks has been made since. The Cancer Research Campaign writes to The Dunhill Medical Trust confirming that as the charity no longer has an association with tobacco funding, it is exempt under its code of practice (the forerunner of the 2004 Cancer Research UK Joint Protocol with Universities UK ). Strengthening our governance 2004 : The charity prioritises support for ageing well and older people, although it still funds broader medical research. 2005 : Kay Glendinning retires as Executive Director and joins the Board of Trustees in a non-executive capacity. A non-Dunhill family member becomes the charity’s next Executive Director and a Grants and Research Committee and an Investment Committee are established onto which external experts are recruited. 2011 : The Dunhill Medical Trust becomes a charitable company limited by guarantee and re-registers with the Charity Commission with its new charitable structure. Disposing of our indirect tobacco-related investments 2013 : New Trustees start to be brought onto the Board using open recruitment. The Board discusses the reputational implications of indirect tobacco investments in the charity’s investment portfolio. Tobacco company holdings are present in some of the charity’s collective fund investments. The charity’s investment consultants advise the Trustees that excluding funds containing tobacco investments would put achieving the financial return needed to support the grant-making programme at risk. 2015 : The Board again debates the suitability of indirect tobacco investments and directs the Investment Committee to keep exposure ‘as low as possible’ and under regular review. 2016 : By this time, less than 5% of the investment portfolio is exposed to indirect tobacco investments. A tobacco exclusion is introduced as a screening criterion for new investments, and regular reviews of any indirect tobacco investment exposure continue. 2019 : Kay Glendinning steps down as a Trustee and becomes the Trust’s first Patron. A hard tobacco exclusion is written into a revised Investment Policy and the funds containing the final 1.2% of indirect tobacco exposure are sold. A name to better match our current and future funding mission 2020 : From March 2020, the charity’s investment portfolio is free from indirect tobacco exposure and there has been no indirect exposure to tobacco since. The charity’s 2020–2025 strategic framework is launched and £5M is ringfenced to establish a fund to be used for social investment. 2023 : The charity revises its Investment Policy to reflect a responsible and impact-conscious approach to managing its investments. A Chief Investment Officer is appointed to lead the implementation of a socially responsible and impact-conscious investment strategy. 2024 : Following the High Court’s Butler-Sloss and Others vs Charity Commission decision, the Board further refines the Investment Policy and adds a new exclusion for fossil fuel investments. 2025 : Responding to feedback from its award-holders, partners and other stakeholders, the charity changes its name to the Vivensa Foundation to better reflect its mission and work as a funder and as an impact-intentional investor. The word Vivensa is derived from the Latin word ‘to live’ or ‘to be alive’. The 2025–2030 strategic framework is launched, building on the values and principles-based approach launched in 2020. During the 21st century, the charity has committed over £100M to supporting researchers and clinicians, community organisations and other innovators dedicated to improving health and care for people in the UK. Of this, more that £20M has been invested in early career researchers and launched some important and impactful careers. We’re now looking forward to the next chapter in our evolution.