Eligibility Q&A Please answer the questions in the below eligibility quiz before starting your application. You will be asked to confirm that you have done so when you come to complete your application. If you need any advice or are unsure how to respond to any of these questions, please do contact us. For research grant applicants only. If you are a community organisation applying to a community-led scheme, please see the individual call guidelines. Yes – We try to prioritise areas which are under-funded or are not associated with significant, dedicated national or international charities so we exclude projects with a specific focus on cancer. Your proposal is therefore unlikely to be eligible – please check the focus of the call for which you are applying. No – Your proposal is likely to be eligible. Yes – You may not be eligible to apply. Please contact us if you would like to discuss this further. No – You are eligible to apply. In general, applications led by less experienced Principal Investigators (PIs) will not be precluded and indeed are encouraged. We would, however, expect to see at least one experienced Co-Investigator named as a co-applicant and that there are plans for the mentoring, support and development of the PI. Yes – You may not be eligible to apply. Please contact us if you would like to discuss this further. No – You are eligible to apply. Yes – Applications must be aligned to the objectives of the call to be considered. Please check the call details . No – Unfortunately, we are unable to accept speculative applications. You can check to see if we’re open to applications – and the themes of the applications by going to our “ open calls and applications ” page. A higher education institution (HEI) within the UK An NHS Trust or other NHS body with research capacity; Another eligible research organisation within the UK Yes – You are eligible to apply. No – If you work for another type of organisation, or in one based outside of the UK, you are unlikely to be eligible. Please check the guidelines for the specific call for any exceptions. Yes – We do not provide grants for individuals, other than via PhD studentships or post-doctoral fellowships, for which we expect a suitable supervisory team to be in place as co-applicants. No – We will provide project grant funding for suitably constructed teams, and we prefer to fund multi-disciplinary projects. For grants to individuals (e.g. PhD studentships or fellowships), we expect a suitable supervisory team to be in place as co-applicants. Yes – You are eligible to apply only if your resubmission clearly addresses the feedback and comments received during the original review process. Therefore, ensure your revised application reflects these changes. Please note that an application may only be resubmitted once , unless explicitly stated otherwise by the Grants Team. For full details, refer to our resubmission policy . No – You are eligible to apply.