Vivensa Academy We are a growing membership of researchers, clinicians and community-facing organisations. We are committed to improving our experience of later life, whether that’s through research into ageing or delivering evidence-led services, products and interventions. Read on to discover why you should apply to join Vivensa Academy, including members-only funding opportunities. Why join Vivensa Academy? Here are five good reasons to become a member today: Use the member directory to search for an expert, mentor or collaborator Browse a wide range of learning resources Find out about networking opportunities and learning events Discover vacancies on our jobs and studentships board Access members-only funding opportunities Our mission We’re an inclusive body of researchers, clinicians and innovative community organisations working across the disciplinary and professional range. Our mission is to: Seed, support and celebrate success in ageing-related research. Encourage the key principles and good practice we wish to uphold. Showcase and learn from innovative work. Foster relationships between academic and clinical researchers and community organisations. Build a network for our members to find new collaborators, mentors and advisors. Help us grow Vivensa Academy The more active the membership, the more useful Vivensa Academy will be. So why not invite a colleague to join? Or work with us to organise an online learning event to share your expertise with other members? Early career researchers will be offered the chance to engage in strategy setting and attend grant awarding committee meetings – a great opportunity to see our work in action. If you have ideas for events, training, web content or growing our membership, please contact us on: academy@vivensafoundation.org.uk . Interested? Find out how to apply. Search for experts, collaborators or mentors. Advertise and search for vacancies. Details of our events, awards and resources. Latest news Nick Evans reflects on 10 years of the ECR network/Vivensa Academy As we are fast-approaching the 10-year anniversary of the creation of the ECR network, Nick Evans reflects on some of the ways in which Vivensa Academy is benefitting its members. Using Ignition funding to better understand the role of immune cells in muscle ageing Dr Mark Ross was among our first Ignition Fund awardees in 2024 and used the funding to undertake a secondment to the University of Birmingham to learn how to isolate immune cells from muscle tissue. New resources to support Structured Medication Reviews in care homes A suite of new resources to help care home residents, their families and staff to prepare for and participate in Structured Medication Reviews (SMRs).