Home About In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications Grants Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes walcot-estate Tenant resources Letting Tenant resources Letting CONTACT US Support our work Donate Volunteer Donate Volunteer News FAQs Area we cover 100% of your donation reaches the people its aimed at. We deduct no admin fees of any kind. We have historic assets but anything you give builds on those and extends our work. 100% of what reaches us reaches Lambeth people affected by modern day poverty. We deduct no adminstrative or other fees of any kind. And if you Gift Aid your donation, that extra sum also reaches beneficiaries. Donations from individuals Donations can be made directly, please c all during office hours and speak to one of the team. The number is 020 7735 1925 or email us . We'll be glad to hear from you. Donations by organisations and companies Corporate donations allow your company or organisation to achive your social responsibility wishes easily and transparently, and with no additional costs or fees . Our local knowledge, assessment, reporting and impact assessment skills are at your disposal. Email us for more information. Click image to download PDF The Walcot Foundation 127 Kennington Road London SE11 6SF Map 020 7735 1925 How to contact us | what3words /// each.dips.tests The Walcot & Hayle's Trustee (company 6133849) is sole trustee of The Walcot Educational Foundation (312800), The Hayle's Charity (312800-1), The Walcot Non-Educational Charity (312800-2) and The Lady Cynthia Charity (312800-3) © 2006-2022 The Walcot Foundation Vertical Divider Search our site Subscribe to news | Grantee? Give us feedback Donate | Tenant resources | Safeguarding | Our logo We are a Living Wage Employer | Privacy | Whistleblowing Unhappy with our service? | FAQs | Publications Home About In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications Grants Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes walcot-estate Tenant resources Letting Tenant resources Letting CONTACT US Support our work Donate Volunteer Donate Volunteer News FAQs Area we cover