Home About In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications Grants Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes walcot-estate Tenant resources Letting Tenant resources Letting CONTACT US Support our work Donate Volunteer Donate Volunteer News FAQs Area we cover What's your approach and style as a grantmaker? We work hard on this. Please see here . Do you provide housing? Not as part of our charitable work. The Foundation owns flats, houses and some commercial property which it lets. We are not a housing charity or a social landlord and these properties form part of the Foundation's income-generating historic assets. We let them at market rents. See our lettings page. Can I help with your work? Yes, most importantly by letting those who may meet our criteria know of our grants. We also value the help we occasionally get from volunteers . There are some specific skills we are looking for. Volunteers often give their help and expertise for a short period, with both sides benefiting. It is also possible to give money to support our work. We make no deductions from your gift to cover our administrative fees: 100% of what you give reaches Lambeth people needing help - more if you Gift Aid your donation. We're very grateful for all gifts. Do you operate beyond Lambeth? No, we have a specific, legally defined, ' area of benefit '. We do fund organisations and schools outside Lambeth but only for the work they undertake with Lambeth citizens meeting our criteria. Do you fund research? We rarely fund research but may consider doing so in certain circumstances. We are interested in making sustainable and long-term improvements in the lives of our beneficiaries. Our 'area of benefit' is Lambeth and our charity schemes focus on those in financial need. We do not consider funding research into themes we regard as already well researched, or where knowledge already exists in a form that could be applied to work in Lambeth We will consider proposals where the likely knowledge gained would be fresh, unavailable elsewhere, focused on Lambeth and concerned with forms of social exclusion arising from financial inequality and practical solutions to that If you have proposals which you think meet these conditions please email a preliminary outline to us, or call the Grants Manager. We're always happy to talk. How do you measure the impact of your grant-making? This is an important question! We describe our approach here . How is the Foundation run? A board of Governors is responsible for the overall direction, work and effectiveness of the Foundation. The Director oversees all operational aspects of the Foundation's work. Our staff team also includes our Finance Manager, Grants Manager, Grants Officers, a Grants Administrator and Property & Estate Manager. More on governance . Are you open to radical, untested, unusual proposals? We are. But expect us to be realistic and rigorous - and they must relate to our charitable purposes and priorities. I am interested in your work - can I find out more? Yes. Please explore our website and perhaps look at our latest Annual Report and Accounts (long, rather formal) or the Annual Review . You'll find links on our publications page . Where work levels allow, we'll be delighted to arrange for you to visit and talk with us. We are also glad to consider invitations to talk to Lambeth groups and schools, in person or by video. Please get in touch . I want to become a modern day benefactor Making a substantial gift, perhaps in your Will, will make a long-term difference. Mr Walcot's gift remains active today, over 350 years after his death. Come and talk to us! We do not consider funding research into themes we regard as already well researched, or where knowledge already exists in a form that could be applied to work in Lambeth We will consider proposals where the likely knowledge gained would be fresh, unavailable elsewhere, focused on Lambeth and concerned with forms of social exclusion arising from financial inequality and practical solutions to that The Walcot Foundation 127 Kennington Road London SE11 6SF Map 020 7735 1925 How to contact us | what3words /// each.dips.tests The Walcot & Hayle's Trustee (company 6133849) is sole trustee of The Walcot Educational Foundation (312800), The Hayle's Charity (312800-1), The Walcot Non-Educational Charity (312800-2) and The Lady Cynthia Charity (312800-3) © 2006-2022 The Walcot Foundation Vertical Divider Search our site Subscribe to news | Grantee? Give us feedback Donate | Tenant resources | Safeguarding | Our logo We are a Living Wage Employer | Privacy | Whistleblowing Unhappy with our service? | FAQs | Publications Home About In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications Grants Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes walcot-estate Tenant resources Letting Tenant resources Letting CONTACT US Support our work Donate Volunteer Donate Volunteer News FAQs Area we cover