Home About In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications Grants Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes walcot-estate Tenant resources Letting Tenant resources Letting CONTACT US Support our work Donate Volunteer Donate Volunteer News FAQs Area we cover 2025 Grant making Priorities We establish grant making priorities in order to make the greatest impact and typically apply them for three years before reviewing. We publicise them to help others know what we are likely to fund. These priorities are not exclusive, and the Foundation will consider exceptional applications outside them where the projected results fit well with our vision, mission, values and strategy . 1. Supporting families under pressure Empowering families to deal with the problems that are preventing them from thriving, such as poor housing, debt, benefits issues and difficulties in supporting their children’s education. This could involve funding advice projects or family support workers. 2. Improving engagement with education Enabling pupils who are disengaged from education to achieve academically and/or vocationally, including projects that focus on the transition years or that work with students at risk of exclusion. 3. Building better mental health for children and young people. Early intervention projects that help improve mental health and give children and young people effective coping skills for the future. ​ 4. Increasing confidence and skills through positive activities. Giving school-age children who would otherwise be prevented due to low-income the ability to take part in activities and experiences that build confidence and new skills. We support projects that specifically target and meet the needs of children from disadvantaged backgrounds. 5. Tackling youth unemployment We support projects that are working with young people who have significant additional barriers to employment. Lambeth Stories Our approach as a Grantmaker Things we count as important as a Grantmaker WE BUILD ON THE STRENGTHS OUR GRANTEES ALREADY HAVE We view our grantees as partners and we aim to build on the strengths they already have. NO UNNECESSARY OBSTACLES We don't ever want to waste your time. We aim to make applying for our grants as straight-forward as possible. We ask for the information we need, and no more. We provide the clearest information about who and what we can fund. And when it comes to post-award reporting, we keep it as straightforward and light-touch as we can. WE FOCUS ON WHAT IMPACT OUR GRANTS WILL HAVE Broadly, this is a concern with improvement and success in education, training and employment for Lambeth citizens from low income households. ​ WE ARE FAIR AND CONSISTENT We apply consistent eligibility criteria; we do not discriminate on any basis other than income and residence in Lambeth. (And age - the vast bulk of our grants are required by our charity Scheme to be given to under 30s) Our approach as a Grantmaker WE AIM TO BE OPEN IN OUR DEALINGS WITH APPLICANTS We're interested in grown-up conversations and start with the wish to help applicants if we can. WE ARE KEEN TO LEARN We are open to new ideas and to constructive feedback, always interested in new ways of achieving our aims. Comments VICTORIA “I would not be where I am today if it wasn’t for Edmund Walcot’s legacy, it’s a big statement and one I’m sure that is echoed by many. From a young age I wanted to enter the media industry but with no connections and no access to equipment it wasn’t a great start. I was introduced to the Walcot Foundation and their vision of ‘a hand up not a hand out’, which is exactly what they did for me. They set me up with my first production kit and a mentor in the media. They were always on hand to help me.... and when I wanted to give back to the community it was them I turned to first. They helped launch Iconic Steps; we have helped over 100 young people with free video training. My hopes for the future is to see Iconic Steps grow and help even more young people into employment in the media.” Victoria “I feel the Walcot Foundation do so much... Their excellent communication means I feel reassured with the genuine help I receive. I never feel judged or patronised for seeking such help and I am very grateful.” AO SM (Grant towards costs of Biological Sciences degree) “The Walcot grant provided me with all the essentials I needed and saved me the stress and worry that I would have had to face due to my finances.” “Thank you for your support throughout the three years of this programme. You have been just the type of funder a small project like Trust Women’s Project needs - supportive and flexible, also a critical friend who understands and demonstrates an understanding of the needs of clients and the wider context of our work.” KATRINA "Hello, I was just thinking about your foundation and how I probably needed to thank you more for the help you gave me to study law (a substantial number of years ago now). I'm from a proud working class background and was sorely lacking in finance to return to college as an undergraduate to study law. You gifted me an amount to purchase some legal books. Anyway, to cut to the chase, I qualified and have now been a solicitor for 20+ years. I have headed departments, worked closely with MHCLG and others and was awarded an MBE in 2017 for services to social housing. I'm sure I said thank you at the time, but thank you again! Your help really did make a difference." “..thank you very much for all the support and help granted towards my studies. I have been able to accomplish all my goals thanks to all the help given and I am now ready to graduate this year and this wouldn’t have been possible without your help” LH “During my time at university I used to work every Saturday to support myself with bus pass, books etc. The Walcot Foundation grant was a great help to me as it allowed me to focus on my study and not to worry so much about my financial issues. As a result, I have done remarkably well and completed my degree with 1st class honours”. AB JGN (Grant towards costs of BSc Politics & International Relations with Economics) “My mother and I have been struggling, and if it wasn’t for the Walcot Foundation I doubt I would have been able to afford my commute to university and essential equipment that has allowed me to excel at university.” You can help us with your feedback... The Walcot Foundation 127 Kennington Road London SE11 6SF Map 020 7735 1925 How to contact us | what3words /// each.dips.tests The Walcot & Hayle's Trustee (company 6133849) is sole trustee of The Walcot Educational Foundation (312800), The Hayle's Charity (312800-1), The Walcot Non-Educational Charity (312800-2) and The Lady Cynthia Charity (312800-3) © 2006-2022 The Walcot Foundation Vertical Divider Search our site Subscribe to news | Grantee? Give us feedback Donate | Tenant resources | Safeguarding | Our logo We are a Living Wage Employer | Privacy | Whistleblowing Unhappy with our service? | FAQs | Publications Home About In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications Grants Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes walcot-estate Tenant resources Letting Tenant resources Letting CONTACT US Support our work Donate Volunteer Donate Volunteer News FAQs Area we cover