Home About In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications Grants Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes walcot-estate Tenant resources Letting Tenant resources Letting CONTACT US Support our work Donate Volunteer Donate Volunteer News FAQs Area we cover May 2022: £65,000 over three years to St Giles Trust to fund SOS+ Embedded Mentor in Bishop Thomas Grant School. Their 'SOS' project employs ex-gang members to support those at risk of gangs in the community and SOS+ is an extension of this work in schools. The project aims to de-glamorise gang culture and expose the realities of crime and violence and would create an embedded SOS+ mentor within the school. ​May 2021 : £75,000 over three years was awarded to Streatham Drop-in Centre for Asylum Seekers and Refugees for the continuation of the Homework and Family Learning Project that the Centre has run for the past three years. The project combines weekly homework support and literacy and numeracy lessons for primary school pupils, with workshops for refugee parents. The workshops for parents aim to empower them to understand the education system and offer literacy and numeracy workshops to enhance their ability to support their children’s education. ​May 2021 : £75,000 over three years was awarded to Streatham Drop-in Centre for Asylum Seekers and Refugees for the continuation of the Homework and Family Learning Project that the Centre has run for the past three years. The project combines weekly homework support and literacy and numeracy lessons for primary school pupils, with workshops for refugee parents. The workshops for parents aim to empower them to understand the education system and offer literacy and numeracy workshops to enhance their ability to support their children’s education. Nov 2021: £60,000 over three years to The Kids Network for its Lambeth Connecting for Change project. This project will is to fund a new Lambeth Volunteer Coordinator who will mobilise, train and support volunteers to provide weekly mentoring sessions to primary school children who are identified as disadvantaged and referred by local Lambeth schools. This is a 12-month programme (starting in September 2022) with all sessions taking place out of school hours (crucially continuing during the ‘summer learning gap’ when the most disadvantaged children can fall behind their peers). Nov 2021: £25,000 over one year to Doorstep Library for their Lambeth project. Doorstep Library volunteers work with families of children aged 0-11, spending 20 minutes per week for up to two years, reading with children on their doorstep or in their homes. They aim to help children develop a love of reading, empowering families to become involved in their child’s reading and encouraging families to connect with their communities. This project will encourage children to embrace reading for pleasure, foster positive home learning environments and connect isolated families to their community through weekly visits with volunteers. Volunteers offer signposting to external services. Nov 2021: £25,000 over one year to Doorstep Library for their Lambeth project. Doorstep Library volunteers work with families of children aged 0-11, spending 20 minutes per week for up to two years, reading with children on their doorstep or in their homes. They aim to help children develop a love of reading, empowering families to become involved in their child’s reading and encouraging families to connect with their communities. This project will encourage children to embrace reading for pleasure, foster positive home learning environments and connect isolated families to their community through weekly visits with volunteers. Volunteers offer signposting to external services. May 2021 : £75,000 over three years to Turney School for its School Community Links Programme for employability and independence. This is a joint project from Turney School and Lansdowne School (Lambeth Special Schools). This project provides half-day weekly sessions based at Roots and Shoots (in groups of 6-9) for their 16–18-year-old students. It provides accredited, practical, learner led activities based on horticulture, nature and outdoors. This will include work experience and independent living skills for teenagers with autism and complex needs. Nov 2021: £64,553 over three years awarded to Tree Shepherd for their Start Your Own Enterprise project. The recently redesigned 'Start Your Own Enterprise' programme plans to work with 45 unemployed Lambeth young people per year, offering 3 intakes of 15 a six-week (3 hours a week) introductory course. Tree Shepherd will help participants develop their idea, test trade and start their own businesses whilst also teaching broader employability skills to help participants who need to work whilst their business develops. Following completion of the 6-week course, each participant will get 7 sessions with a business advisor/mentor and qualify to join the Tree Shepherd Youth Enterprise Network, offering monthly meetings, training and talks. Nov 2021: £64,553 over three years awarded to Tree Shepherd for their Start Your Own Enterprise project. The recently redesigned 'Start Your Own Enterprise' programme plans to work with 45 unemployed Lambeth young people per year, offering 3 intakes of 15 a six-week (3 hours a week) introductory course. Tree Shepherd will help participants develop their idea, test trade and start their own businesses whilst also teaching broader employability skills to help participants who need to work whilst their business develops. Following completion of the 6-week course, each participant will get 7 sessions with a business advisor/mentor and qualify to join the Tree Shepherd Youth Enterprise Network, offering monthly meetings, training and talks. May 2022: £25,000 over one year to Reay Primary School for their "Mind the 'word' gap!" project. The school will screen all disadvantaged pupils in Nursery and Reception and develop the programme of support and training beyond the Early Years. Using this information Reay would offer targeted speech and language therapy support to individuals and small groups. May 2022: £25,000 over one year to Reay Primary School for their "Mind the 'word' gap!" project. The school will screen all disadvantaged pupils in Nursery and Reception and develop the programme of support and training beyond the Early Years. Using this information Reay would offer targeted speech and language therapy support to individuals and small groups. May 2022: £57,584 over three years to The Children's Literacy Charity for their Expert Literacy Lab in Lambeth. This will deliver individual literacy support sessions in three Lambeth schools with the focus on catching up children who are up to 24 months behind their age-expected literacy levels. May 2021 : £73,389 over three years to Oasis Hub Waterloo to provide part-funding to the Advice Centre Caseworker and Advice Centre Manager which will provide high-quality debt and benefits advice through its integrated community hub model (particularly with the foodbank and local schools). It will also be piloting Level 1 Immigration advice and have expanded advice space through a new community venue (previously a business venue) opposite the current Oasis Waterloo Library. ​ ​Click here for a full list of grants funded by Walcot Foundation since 2012 ​ We publish all our grant information using the 360Giving data standard The Walcot Foundation 127 Kennington Road London SE11 6SF Map 020 7735 1925 How to contact us | what3words /// each.dips.tests The Walcot & Hayle's Trustee (company 6133849) is sole trustee of The Walcot Educational Foundation (312800), The Hayle's Charity (312800-1), The Walcot Non-Educational Charity (312800-2) and The Lady Cynthia Charity (312800-3) © 2006-2022 The Walcot Foundation Vertical Divider Search our site Subscribe to news | Grantee? Give us feedback Donate | Tenant resources | Safeguarding | Our logo We are a Living Wage Employer | Privacy | Whistleblowing Unhappy with our service? | FAQs | Publications Home About In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications Grants Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes walcot-estate Tenant resources Letting Tenant resources Letting CONTACT US Support our work Donate Volunteer Donate Volunteer News FAQs Area we cover