Home About In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications Grants Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes walcot-estate Tenant resources Letting Tenant resources Letting CONTACT US Support our work Donate Volunteer Donate Volunteer News FAQs Area we cover We aim to change lives. We are an independent foundation operating solely in the London borough of Lambeth. Our Vision is a Lambeth in which all young people can thrive. In order to make this happen, we offer a range of economic and social support, primarily to young individuals, schools and community groups so as to transform their prospects in the borough. Support us ABOUT US ABOUT US PUBLICATIONS PUBLICATIONS To mark the end of BounceBack in October 2024, we commissioned 10 young people who had taken part in the programme to make a short film about their experiences of looking for work in Lambeth. This is what they created​ More... To mark the end of BounceBack in October 2024, we commissioned 10 young people who had taken part in the programme to make a short film about their experiences of looking for work in Lambeth. This is what they created​ More... To mark the end of BounceBack in October 2024, we commissioned 10 young people who had taken part in the programme to make a short film about their experiences of looking for work in Lambeth. This is what they created​ More... Great to learn that our partners at Katakata have been recognised for their wonderful work via a Big Issue Change Maker Award and have also recently been featured on Channel 4 news, highlighting their incredible inclusive hiring practices. More... Great to learn that our partners at Katakata have been recognised for their wonderful work via a Big Issue Change Maker Award and have also recently been featured on Channel 4 news, highlighting their incredible inclusive hiring practices. More... Poverty in the UK. Is there really a problem? SAFEGUARDING ​ Safeguarding children and vulnerable adults SAFEGUARDING POLICY We are fully committed to the safeguarding of groups who are vulnerable to abuse. It is our policy to require organizations we fund to have in place formal safeguarding policies and procedures and, additionally, a whistle-blowing policy and procedure. The Foundation will report any informed suspicions to the appropriate authorities without delay . ​ SAFEGUARDING ​ The Walcot Foundation 127 Kennington Road London SE11 6SF Map 020 7735 1925 How to contact us | what3words /// each.dips.tests The Walcot & Hayle's Trustee (company 6133849) is sole trustee of The Walcot Educational Foundation (312800), The Hayle's Charity (312800-1), The Walcot Non-Educational Charity (312800-2) and The Lady Cynthia Charity (312800-3) © 2006-2022 The Walcot Foundation Vertical Divider Search our site Subscribe to news | Grantee? Give us feedback Donate | Tenant resources | Safeguarding | Our logo We are a Living Wage Employer | Privacy | Whistleblowing Unhappy with our service? | FAQs | Publications Home About In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications In a nutshell Our approach as grantmaker Governance Publications Grants Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes Individuals Organisations/Schools Priorities Previous Grants Lambeth Stories Feedback Programmes walcot-estate Tenant resources Letting Tenant resources Letting CONTACT US Support our work Donate Volunteer Donate Volunteer News FAQs Area we cover