Get Support Post award guidance Award You will receive an email confirming your application has been successful. This will include details of the grant award, a grant agreement for you to sign, and a link for you to upload the agreement, along with bank details and a supporting document as proof such as a recent statement or paying in slip clearly showing the account name, account number and sort code. We encourage you to complete the paperwork within 2 weeks of receipt of your grant award email to ensure we can release the first instalment in a timely manner Grant Payments Once we receive the grant agreement and bank documents, we will phone you to verbally confirm the details as part of our due diligence. The first grant instalment will then be released, and you will receive the funds within two weeks. When the grant offer has been accepted and paid, we will publish your grant to 360Giving, with details about the grant amount, purpose and duration. By sharing this data, we contribute to wider analysis of grant giving to shape and inform future strategies within the sector. Monitoring and Updates In line with our grant agreements, grantees are required to submit monitoring reports on an annual basis ahead of each instalment release, and at the end of the grant period. The dates these reports are due will be recorded within your grant agreement. You will receive a link via email 4 weeks before the due date to complete each report online. We aim to be a responsive and flexible funder, and we encourage you to contact us as soon as possible with any significant changes to the charity or the grant, regardless of when the next report is due. We will arrange a virtual meeting to discuss these changes in more detail and work together to reach a solution. To preview our monitoring form for the Small and Large Grants programmes click here . Public and Social Media Acknowledgement of Your Grant The aim of public and social media acknowledgement is to raise awareness of your partnership with the MCF and the impact of the grant you have received. Recognition of this grant helps promote both your charity’s work and our commitment to supporting your cause. Grants are awarded jointly by the MCF and your local Provincial Grand Lodge, or Metropolitan Lodge for charities or projects based in London. Therefore, all communications acknowledge this relationship. For Small Grants, our Marketing team will support you in promoting your grant via social media. They will provide you with a Promote Your Grant Pack with information on how to publicise the grant. This pack will include our logo as well as guidance on how to use the logo correctly. We ask that you display our logo on the funders’ page of your website, if you have one, and include in any social media posts. The pack will provide you with content guidelines for social media posts as well as sample copy which you can adapt as needed. For Large Grants, our Press Officer will coordinate with you on a press release and arrange a visit to meet your team and see your work in action if it is appropriate. We will liaise with you on safeguarding considerations such as photography restrictions. Our Marketing team will aim to contact you within three months after the grant award to arrange a promotional campaign of your work. Whilst this is optional, we greatly appreciate collaborations to maximise the impact of your work and the grant. Our Marketing team is on hand to answer any marketing-related enquiries you may have. Please email the team at: communications@mcf.org.uk Relief Chest News Donate Get Support Freemasons and families Daily living costs Health, care and wellbeing Mental health Children, young people and education RMBI Advice & Support Team Visiting Volunteers Eligibility Apply A-Z of support Appeals and complaints Grants to charities Our priorities Eligibility Apply for a grant Application resources Partnership programmes Post award guidance A-Z of our support services Freemasons and families Daily living costs Health, care and wellbeing Mental health Children, young people and education RMBI Advice & Support Team Visiting Volunteers Eligibility Apply A-Z of support Appeals and complaints Daily living costs Health, care and wellbeing Mental health Children, young people and education RMBI Advice & Support Team Visiting Volunteers Eligibility Apply A-Z of support Appeals and complaints Grants to charities Our priorities Eligibility Apply for a grant Application resources Partnership programmes Post award guidance Our priorities Eligibility Apply for a grant Application resources Partnership programmes Post award guidance A-Z of our support services Support our work Donate Relief Chest Scheme Freemasonry Gives – Donate to a Relief Chest Online Relief Chest Online E-Voucher service Frequently asked questions Resources ‘How to’ Videos Festivals Gifts in Wills Leave a gift in your Will Meet our legacy donors Donate in memory FAQs Honorifics Fundraising complaints Share your story Donate Relief Chest Scheme Freemasonry Gives – Donate to a Relief Chest Online Relief Chest Online E-Voucher service Frequently asked questions Resources ‘How to’ Videos Freemasonry Gives – Donate to a Relief Chest Online Relief Chest Online E-Voucher service Frequently asked questions Resources ‘How to’ Videos Festivals Gifts in Wills Leave a gift in your Will Meet our legacy donors Donate in memory FAQs Leave a gift in your Will Meet our legacy donors Donate in memory FAQs Honorifics Fundraising complaints Share your story Media News Better Lives Blog E-newsletter Social media News Better Lives Blog E-newsletter Social media Resources Almoners Provinces RightMarket Charity Stewards Relief Chest Leaflets Presentations Merchandise Useful links Prostate Cancer Better Lives Almoners Provinces RightMarket Charity Stewards Relief Chest Leaflets Presentations Merchandise Useful links Prostate Cancer Better Lives Impact Our approach to impact and evaluation Impact report Financial report 360Giving Success stories Our work in your community Our approach to impact and evaluation Impact report Financial report 360Giving Success stories Our work in your community About us What is Freemasonry? Our history Our services The Team Governance and Trustees Senior Leadership Our departments Our partners Contact us Careers What is Freemasonry? Our history Our services The Team Governance and Trustees Senior Leadership Our departments Governance and Trustees Senior Leadership Our departments Our partners Contact us Careers Contact us Mailing List Facebook Instagram LinkedIn WhatsApp What are you looking for?