Get Support Support for Freemasons and families We are here to support Freemasons and their families when life takes an unexpected turn for the worse. We offer a wide range of grants and support services for financial, health, family and care-related needs. Can we help you? Answer a few questions about your circumstances using the chatbot in the bottom right corner of the screen and the type of help you are looking for, to find out if we can help. Speak to your lodge Almoner, or find out how to contact us directly. Daily living expenses and other urgent costs. Medical treatment, support for carers, mobility equipment and adaptations, and mental health support. Grants to help young people in education or training to achieve their potential and maximise their talents. Residential care for older Freemasons and their families. A free and confidential service for Freemasons and their families, offering guidance on a range of issues. Learn more about the volunteers that help Freemasons and their families to complete an application. Not sure what kind of grant you’re looking for? Explore this list of examples of our support. Learn more about our eligibility criteria and use our eligibility checker Are you from an overseas District or Group? Find out how to apply for MCF support Our bi-annual magazine, featuring real stories and advice for anyone thinking of applying. Discover how we are making a difference in the words of people whose lives we have changed. Visit our YouTube channel to see our grants and services for Freemasons and their families in action. Share your story If you have been helped by the MCF, we would love to hear from you! By sharing your story with us, you can help to spread the word about our work and encourage anyone else who might be struggling to ask for the help they need. Share your story Relief Chest News Donate Get Support Freemasons and families Daily living costs Health, care and wellbeing Mental health Children, young people and education RMBI Advice & Support Team Visiting Volunteers Eligibility Apply A-Z of support Appeals and complaints Grants to charities Our priorities Eligibility Apply for a grant Application resources Partnership programmes Post award guidance A-Z of our support services Freemasons and families Daily living costs Health, care and wellbeing Mental health Children, young people and education RMBI Advice & Support Team Visiting Volunteers Eligibility Apply A-Z of support Appeals and complaints Daily living costs Health, care and wellbeing Mental health Children, young people and education RMBI Advice & Support Team Visiting Volunteers Eligibility Apply A-Z of support Appeals and complaints Grants to charities Our priorities Eligibility Apply for a grant Application resources Partnership programmes Post award guidance Our priorities Eligibility Apply for a grant Application resources Partnership programmes Post award guidance A-Z of our support services Support our work Donate Relief Chest Scheme Freemasonry Gives – Donate to a Relief Chest Online Relief Chest Online E-Voucher service Frequently asked questions Resources ‘How to’ Videos Festivals Gifts in Wills Leave a gift in your Will Meet our legacy donors Donate in memory FAQs Honorifics Fundraising complaints Share your story Donate Relief Chest Scheme Freemasonry Gives – Donate to a Relief Chest Online Relief Chest Online E-Voucher service Frequently asked questions Resources ‘How to’ Videos Freemasonry Gives – Donate to a Relief Chest Online Relief Chest Online E-Voucher service Frequently asked questions Resources ‘How to’ Videos Festivals Gifts in Wills Leave a gift in your Will Meet our legacy donors Donate in memory FAQs Leave a gift in your Will Meet our legacy donors Donate in memory FAQs Honorifics Fundraising complaints Share your story Media News Better Lives Blog E-newsletter Social media News Better Lives Blog E-newsletter Social media Resources Almoners Provinces RightMarket Charity Stewards Relief Chest Leaflets Presentations Merchandise Useful links Prostate Cancer Better Lives Almoners Provinces RightMarket Charity Stewards Relief Chest Leaflets Presentations Merchandise Useful links Prostate Cancer Better Lives Impact Our approach to impact and evaluation Impact report Financial report 360Giving Success stories Our work in your community Our approach to impact and evaluation Impact report Financial report 360Giving Success stories Our work in your community About us What is Freemasonry? Our history Our services The Team Governance and Trustees Senior Leadership Our departments Our partners Contact us Careers What is Freemasonry? Our history Our services The Team Governance and Trustees Senior Leadership Our departments Governance and Trustees Senior Leadership Our departments Our partners Contact us Careers Contact us Mailing List Facebook Instagram LinkedIn WhatsApp What are you looking for?