Our Investments Our approach The Trust’s investments provide a financial return to fund our activities. Our approach to investment is to balance the need to provide a sustainable income while taking a responsible and ethical approach, considering environmental, social and governance issues. Our mission Our mission is to use all our assets, especially our money, to work with others to bring about structural change for a more just and equal society. Our investment objectives: To contribute to the mission of the Trust by providing a financial return to fund our activities, considering environmental, social and governance factors, balanced with the need to protect and enhance our value. To promote social justice using social investments as an additional source of finance for social organisations and to develop the social investment market . The future and risk We intend to carry on our work in the long term which means we also take a long term view of our investments. We recognise that different levels of risk are attached to different types of investment, and that those investments which have higher long term financial returns may also be less certain. We accept the level of uncertainty attached to equities and have a predominately equity-based portfolio. We will avoid speculative and non-transparent investments. When considering the risks of social investments we will also consider the potential social value of the investment, including the wider social impact on the sector or social investment market. Responsible Investment We aim to invest in a way that contributes to our mission. We will avoid investing in companies whose activities are inconsistent with our mission and will try to engage with other companies on environmental, social and governance issues to improve business practices. We recognise that we can have an impact by working with our investment manager and investor networks and coalitions. We will continue to develop our understanding of how our investments can contribute to our mission and will develop our approach and activities to that end, sharing our learning with our networks and other organisations and promoting responsible investment to a wider audience. We will avoid investing in companies which are linked to human rights violations or which engage in activities that cause social harm. For example: The Trust will avoid investments in companies which derive more than 5% of their revenue from the production of, or 10% of their revenue from the sales of, armaments, tobacco, alcohol, gambling or pornography. The Trust will not hold any government bonds in countries with high military expenditure or which support the arms trade. The Trust should be aware of its investments and will not hold more than 10% of its investments in pooled funds (excluding investments in property funds, corporate bond funds, social investment funds and other alternative investment funds). We are aware of the significant negative impacts of climate change and the need for businesses to align their activities with the Paris Climate Agreement, with targets of net zero carbon emissions by 2050. Our policy will be to engage in the first instance rather than divest. We work with Charity Responsible Investment Network (CRIN) and the Church Investor Group , and our investment manager, to engage more intensively with investee companies that make a significant contribution to greenhouse gas emissions, whether producers or users, to encourage them to move to a low carbon economy. We will: Not invest in companies that derive more than 5% of their income from the extraction of thermal coal or the production of oil from tar sands. Engage more intensively with companies that make a significant contribution to greenhouse gas emissions, whether producers or users, to encourage them to align their activities with the Paris Climate Agreement and move to a low carbon economy. If companies do not respond to engagement then the Trust will divest. Engage more intensively with public policy makers to create a structural and regulatory environment that supports the transition to a low carbon economy. Try to make investments which have a positive environmental impact, subject to the availability and suitability of such investments. Social investment The Trust has allocated £6 million to provide social investment as an additional source of funding for social organisations. We will support the development of the social investment market to better meet the needs of its users. We will take an active part in networks and groups to share learning and make more effective use of social investment. Related Keep up-to-date with our news and events " * " indicates required fields Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.