About us Barrow Cadbury Trust is an independent, endowed charitable foundation. We have been focusing on social justice and equality issues for more than 100 years, celebrating our centenary in 2020. Our endowment produces an income which we use to fund our work and that of our partners. We have also deployed the funds of other organisations for our social justice mission, such as Access Foundation (social investment infrastructure), National Lottery Community Fund (Covid-19 related needs in the migration sector 2020/2021) and a group of foundations who club together to pay for us to run Fair by Design – the advocacy programme focusing on ending the Poverty Premium. Policy and Partnership Working The root causes of inequality are complex so we often collaborate with partners, other trusts and foundations, local and national government, to identify solutions. The work is often long term; we rarely work on issues for less than 10-15 years. We focus on a small number of specific policy areas and try to influence them by: building or supporting alliances and ecosystems, building an evidence base advocating for change, ensuring the voices of people affected by social injustices are listened to and heard both by us and by those in positions of power. Much of our work is directed towards change at the national level, usually England and Wales, but our economic justice programme is currently focused on Birmingham and the surrounding area. Our vision, mission and values and four cross-cutting themes underpin our work. Find out more Keep up-to-date with our news and events " * " indicates required fields Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.