Terms & Conditions This is the website of Barrow Cadbury Trust, of The Foundry, 17 Oval Way, London, SW11 5RR. This website is designed for information purposes only. By using this website, you are agreeing to comply with and be bound by the following terms of use, which may be subject to change at any time. Please ensure that you review these terms regularly as you will be deemed to have accepted a variation if you continue to use the site after a variation has been posted. Copyright All material on this site is copyright of the Barrow Cadbury Trust or is used with the permission of the owners. All rights reserved. We are happy for the materials on this site to be downloaded, printed out, copied and distributed for non-commercial purposes free of charge and in good faith only. No alteration or adaptation of any of the materials may be made without the prior written permission of the Trustee. We permit incorporation of material into other works or publications in printed, electronic or any other medium provided it is for non-commercial purposes and is appropriately attributed to the Trustee. Reproduction or distribution of materials on this web site for commercial purposes is prohibited without the prior written permission of the Trustee. No right is granted to use the website in such a way so as to remove the copyright or trade mark notice(s) from any copies of any material made in accordance with these terms. Photographs on this website are used with permission of the copyright owner. They may not be reproduced for any purpose. All material on this site is copyright of the Barrow Cadbury Trust or is used with the permission of the owners. All rights reserved. We are happy for the materials on this site to be downloaded, printed out, copied and distributed for non-commercial purposes free of charge and in good faith only. No alteration or adaptation of any of the materials may be made without the prior written permission of the Trustee. We permit incorporation of material into other works or publications in printed, electronic or any other medium provided it is for non-commercial purposes and is appropriately attributed to the Trustee. Reproduction or distribution of materials on this web site for commercial purposes is prohibited without the prior written permission of the Trustee. No right is granted to use the website in such a way so as to remove the copyright or trade mark notice(s) from any copies of any material made in accordance with these terms. Photographs on this website are used with permission of the copyright owner. They may not be reproduced for any purpose. Disclaimer Whilst we believe that information provided through the website is correct at the time of creation, Barrow Cadbury Trust does not make any representation as to and accepts no liability for the accuracy or completeness of information contained on this website, nor does it guarantee use of the site will be uninterrupted. In so far as permitted by law, the Trustee will not be liable for any loss, damage or inconvenience arising as a consequence of any use of or the inability to use any information on this site. All use of the information provided on the website is at your own risk. It is the responsibility of users to check the accuracy of relevant facts and opinions given on the site before entering into any commitment based upon them. Whilst we believe that information provided through the website is correct at the time of creation, Barrow Cadbury Trust does not make any representation as to and accepts no liability for the accuracy or completeness of information contained on this website, nor does it guarantee use of the site will be uninterrupted. In so far as permitted by law, the Trustee will not be liable for any loss, damage or inconvenience arising as a consequence of any use of or the inability to use any information on this site. All use of the information provided on the website is at your own risk. It is the responsibility of users to check the accuracy of relevant facts and opinions given on the site before entering into any commitment based upon them. Links to other websites Certain links in this site will lead you to sites which are not under the control of the Barrow Cadbury Trust. Whilst we make every effort to provide you with links to high quality, reputable sites, the Trustee accepts no responsibility or liability for any issues arising in connection with either use of your data, the site content or the services offered to you by these sites. Certain links in this site will lead you to sites which are not under the control of the Barrow Cadbury Trust. Whilst we make every effort to provide you with links to high quality, reputable sites, the Trustee accepts no responsibility or liability for any issues arising in connection with either use of your data, the site content or the services offered to you by these sites. Proprietary Marks The names, images and logos identifying the Barrow Cadbury Trust, or third parties and their products and services, are the proprietary marks of the Barrow Cadbury Trust, and/or may be the proprietary marks of third parties. Any use made of these marks may be an infringement of rights in those marks and the Trustee reserves all rights to enforce such rights that it might have. The names, images and logos identifying the Barrow Cadbury Trust, or third parties and their products and services, are the proprietary marks of the Barrow Cadbury Trust, and/or may be the proprietary marks of third parties. Any use made of these marks may be an infringement of rights in those marks and the Trustee reserves all rights to enforce such rights that it might have. Warranties While effort has been taken to ensure that the site is free from viruses, no warranties are given that it is free from viruses and users are responsible for ensuring that they have installed adequate virus checking software. The Barrow Cadbury Trust shall not be liable for any viruses or any other computer code, files or programs designed to interrupt, restrict, destroy or limit the functionality or integrity of the site or any hardware on which it is hosted. While effort has been taken to ensure that the site is free from viruses, no warranties are given that it is free from viruses and users are responsible for ensuring that they have installed adequate virus checking software. The Barrow Cadbury Trust shall not be liable for any viruses or any other computer code, files or programs designed to interrupt, restrict, destroy or limit the functionality or integrity of the site or any hardware on which it is hosted. Liability Nothing in these terms serves to exclude or limit liability for death or personal injury arising from negligence or any liability which is otherwise prohibited from being excluded by law. Nothing in these terms serves to exclude or limit liability for death or personal injury arising from negligence or any liability which is otherwise prohibited from being excluded by law. Jurisdiction This web site is controlled and operated by the Barrow Cadbury Trust within the United Kingdom. These terms and conditions and anything in this website shall be interpreted in accordance with and governed exclusively by English law. This web site is controlled and operated by the Barrow Cadbury Trust within the United Kingdom. These terms and conditions and anything in this website shall be interpreted in accordance with and governed exclusively by English law. August 2022 Keep up-to-date with our news and events " * " indicates required fields Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.