Applying for funding The Barrow Cadbury Trust is an independent charity using all its resources for social justice. We seek long-term solutions by looking at root causes of inequality, frequently work ing in partnership with others to identify solutions . We focus on a small number of distinct policy areas and seek to influence them by building an evidence base, advocating for change and ensuring the voices of people affected by social injustices are heard in the debate . Much of our work is directed towards change at the national level: where we work locally this is almost always in Birmingham and the surrounding area. If you are thinking of applying for funding from us please watch our animation first and check out the objectives for the relevant programme and the explainer video on each of the programme pages. You will also find it useful to read our Vision, Mission and Values. Enquiry form Sadly we’re not in a position to fund all the applications we receive, even if they fall within a programme’s criteria . However, if you think your work fits a programme’s objectives, or if you would like to find out if it is eligible, please complete an enquiry form . We will aim to respond within 10 working days. Our programmes of work Our Funded Work If you click through to our 360 Giving page, you can see the grants we have made since April 2012. In the second link you can find details of the work we are currently supporting. Frequently asked questions The FAQs below should answer all your questions but do email us at: [email protected] if you have additional questions. When can I apply? You can apply at any time. We do not have set grant-making deadlines. When can I apply? You can apply at any time. We do not have set grant-making deadlines. Where do we fund? Much of what we fund is intended to influence national policy and practice and where we fund local work this is almost always in Birmingham and the surrounding area. The geographical restrictions in each of our programmes is different, please read the programme guidance carefully. We do not accept unsolicited applications for work outside the UK. Where do we fund? Much of what we fund is intended to influence national policy and practice and where we fund local work this is almost always in Birmingham and the surrounding area. The geographical restrictions in each of our programmes is different, please read the programme guidance carefully. We do not accept unsolicited applications for work outside the UK. How do I apply? On the programme pages you will find information about the funding criteria for each programme as well as a link to a short online enquiry form for you to complete if you think we might be the right funder for your work. If you are new to Barrow Cadbury Trust please do read and watch the information on these pages before completing the online enquiry form . Please fill in an application form if you have already discussed your project with us and we have asked you to fill one in. How do I apply? On the programme pages you will find information about the funding criteria for each programme as well as a link to a short online enquiry form for you to complete if you think we might be the right funder for your work. If you are new to Barrow Cadbury Trust please do read and watch the information on these pages before completing the online enquiry form . Please fill in an application form if you have already discussed your project with us and we have asked you to fill one in. Can I apply as an individual? You can’t apply to the trust as an individual, you can only apply on behalf of an organisation. Can I apply as an individual? You can’t apply to the trust as an individual, you can only apply on behalf of an organisation. How does the Trust make a decision and how long does the decision-making process take? We aim to respond to your enquiry within 10 working days. If, following submission of your enquiry form, you are invited to make a full application, the assessment and decision process at the application form stage may take up to four months though this is usually shorter . Please bear this in mind when planning your start date. How does the Trust make a decision and how long does the decision-making process take? We aim to respond to your enquiry within 10 working days. If, following submission of your enquiry form, you are invited to make a full application, the assessment and decision process at the application form stage may take up to four months though this is usually shorter . Please bear this in mind when planning your start date. If successful when will I receive the grant? We will issue an offer letter within a few days of the decision being made. Once your Chair has signed the agreement and returned it to us payments will start – either immediately or in line with the start date we have agreed with you. If successful when will I receive the grant? We will issue an offer letter within a few days of the decision being made. Once your Chair has signed the agreement and returned it to us payments will start – either immediately or in line with the start date we have agreed with you. Can we re-apply if we have been turned down previously? There is no bar on reapplying, but its best to talk to us first to ensure your new application meets our criteria and we can consider funding it. Can we re-apply if we have been turned down previously? There is no bar on reapplying, but its best to talk to us first to ensure your new application meets our criteria and we can consider funding it. How do I find out about other funders? There are a number of on-line free and paid-for search sites. You could try: https://www.getgrants.org.uk/funding-finder/ or https://www.charityexcellence.co.uk/Home/BlogDetail?Link=Charity_Grant_Funding_Finder . It’s worth looking for work similar to yours on https://grantnav.threesixtygiving.org/ to find funders who might be interested in your approach. How do I find out about other funders? There are a number of on-line free and paid-for search sites. You could try: https://www.getgrants.org.uk/funding-finder/ or https://www.charityexcellence.co.uk/Home/BlogDetail?Link=Charity_Grant_Funding_Finder . It’s worth looking for work similar to yours on https://grantnav.threesixtygiving.org/ to find funders who might be interested in your approach. Application form Please only fill in an application form if you have already discussed your project with us and we have asked you to . If you have not discussed your application with us already please fill in our enquiry form . Click to access the Application budget form and Interim budget form. Any other questions please email [email protected] Stories of change Give me some credit: The reality of life without a safety net Birmingham Poverty Truth Commission Birmingham and Solihull Social Economy Consortium CIC (BSSEC) Birmingham Anchor Network and Loconomy Keep up-to-date with our news and events " * " indicates required fields Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.