Please choose a location from the list below. If your chosen location doesn’t have an active link to additional careers information, you can still find jobs for the location here. Albania Czech Republic Deutschland Greece Ireland Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Portugal Romania Spain United Kingdom Asia-Pac Middle East Turkey DR Congo Egypt Ghana Kenya Lesotho Mozambique Nigeria South Africa Tanzania Our Application Journey Vodafone is only at its best when our people are. That’s why our efforts to increase diversity, ensure equal representation, and make Vodafone a place where everyone feels safe, valued and included are unwavering. That way we can be sure we’re best representing the communities we serve and bring our different ways of thinking together to tackle problems. That's why we've created this page to help you know what to expect during our hiring process, the different stages and what we'll be assessing. We want to be transparent with our recruitment process every step of the way, and that starts right from before you apply. Making an Application Before you make an application with us, we have lots of information and tools to help you find out if Vodafone and the role you are applying for is it the right fit for you. We're here to help you find the next step of your career! Our grow your career platform can provide you recommendations and insights into suitable roles we have at Vodafone, within seconds of uploading your CV. Click here to be taken through to our vacancies page. If you don't find the perfect role for you, you can join our talent network and you'll be informed of any new opportunities that are suitable for you. If you require an adjustment or would like to find out more about our adjustments process, please visit our dedicated adjustments page. Once you've received your application, our talent acquisition team will begin looking through your application, and assessing your suitability for the role. You'll hear back from the team within 10 days with an update. If successful, your recruiter will advise on the next stages of our recruitment process. If you're not suitable on this occasion, we'll let you know. However, we're always looking for great talent and another opportunity may be around the corner, so if you've opted to leave your details with us, you'll be added to our talent network for future vacancies. Depending on the role you are applying for, you may be asked to complete an online assessment. More details about which assessments we use and tips to allow you to perform best can be found on our assessments page by clicking here. The next stage of the process is the interview stage. You can find lots of useful information and our interview questions on our dedicated interview page. Click here to view. Considering using AI? We know that applying for a new role can sometimes be daunting and we want to ensure you are at your best, every step of the way. AI can be a great tool, but how can you use it to help your application, not hinder it? We've pulled together some application top tips, as well as a helpful guide on where AI can support you, so you can really shine throughout the process. Offer & Onboarding Congratulations, you're one step closer to joining a global and diverse community, with many different minds, abilities, backgrounds and cultures. Below you'll find all the information about what happens after you've received an offer. The recruiter will contact you to discuss your offer and outline the exact benefits package for your role. After you have concluded the discussion, an offer letter will be sent to you for you to sign and return. We know no one likes completing forms, but background verification checks are a fundamental part of our recruitment process. After accepting your offer, our background verification agency will reach out to you. Providing these details promptly means we can progress you to onboarding as soon as possible. You've made it! Once your background checks are all complete, you will be contacted by your local onboarding specialist who will get you fully prepared for your day one. Hear from our people Sinead Bryan Vodafone Business Director Julia Jüttner Senior Expert Security Compliance & Assurance Cristina Hernandez Specialist Product Marketing Managing Lead MSH Lucia Medina Recruitment Specialist Emily Webberley Senior Compliance Manager – Culture & Control Adjustments to our Application Process We want to make sure you are able to perform your best during your application journey. We've got lots of useful information, contacts and much more on our dedicated reasonable adjustments page. Applying for one of our Early Careers roles? We have a slightly different application process for those applying for our apprentice, graduate, intern and dual student programs. All the information including the application journey can be found under our dedicated early careers page. Explore our global opportunities