Please choose a location from the list below. If your chosen location doesn’t have an active link to additional careers information, you can still find jobs for the location here. Albania Czech Republic Deutschland Greece Ireland Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Portugal Romania Spain United Kingdom Asia-Pac Middle East Turkey DR Congo Egypt Ghana Kenya Lesotho Mozambique Nigeria South Africa Tanzania Finance Graduate Programme Finance That Fuels Innovation At Vodafone, our Finance teams are the strategic engine behind every bold move we make. As a Finance Graduate, you’ll partner closely with the business to deliver critical insights, shape commercial strategy, and guide impactful decisions through data-driven analysis. Close Date: 30th November 2025 Programme details 3 Years 3 x 12 month rotations £32,000 + additional £1,000 sign-on bonus and a range of benefits for you London Paddington, along with a blend of hybrid working. 8 days in your office a month, rest from home! 3 Spirit days a year to focus on your Learning and Wellbeing. 20 days a year you can work abroad! 5 charity days a year where can swap your desk for supporting a chosen charity! Teams you could work in Our Finance Graduate Programme gives you wide-ranging, hands-on experience across the teams that keep our business financially strong and future-ready. You could work in teams across: Data & Analytics Commercial and Technology Finance Vodafone Business Finance Regional Finance Internal Audit Treasury Financial Planning and Analysis Tax Mergers & Acquisitions Finance Operations and Controls Things you could work on Product Profitability Analysis : Assessing the financial performance of different products or services. Investment Appraisal : Supporting the evaluation of new investments using NPV, IRR, and payback period. Cash Flow Forecasting : Developing models to predict short-term and long-term cash needs. New Initiative Feasibility : Building financial models to assess the viability of launching a new product or entering a new market. Annual Budget Planning : Collaborating with business areas to build detailed budgets for the upcoming fiscal year. Cost Optimization : Identifying areas where Vodafone can reduce costs without impacting performance. Every placement will challenge you, inspire you, and help you grow, developing the kind of Finance leader the future needs. Your CIMA qualification You’ll have the opportunity to study towards the CIMA qualification , a globally respected route to becoming a Chartered Global Management Accountant. Duration: Typically takes 3 years to complete Course Delivery: Remote self-study Content: CIMA develops expertise across three key areas: Enterprise: Business strategy, digital transformation, and leadership Performance: Management accounting, risk, and performance analysis Financial: Financial reporting, investment appraisal, and strategic finance Skills you’ll gain: Financial and data literacy, commercial awareness, strategic decision-making, influencing at senior levels What's in it for you? At Vodafone, we know work isn’t just about the job – it’s about balance, wellbeing, and feeling like your part of something bigger. Our hybrid ways of working allow you to work flexibly, with 8 days a month in the office and the rest from home. Beyond your rotations, you'll have the chance to get involved in various committees and societies, connecting with a global network of over 1,000 Graduates, Apprentices, and Interns. You'll also be paired with a dedicated buddy—someone already enrolled in one of our programmes—who understands what it's like to be in your shoes and can offer valuable support and guidance throughout your journey. But it’s not all about work. You'll enjoy summer socials, inter-company networking events, and opportunities to give back through youth volunteering initiatives Interested in applying 2:1 in your chosen degree (achieved or predicted). Preferable degrees with an analytical, numeric or data focus, include Finance, Accounting, Economics, Mathematics, Data, or Science. Recently graduated – i.e., a bachelors or masters obtained or to be obtained between June 2024 and August 2026. You must also have the correct right to work documentation in place for the full programme duration. We do not accept the Graduate Route Visa. Close Date: 30 th November 2025 Our graduate schemes may close early if we receive a high number of applications, so we recommend applying as soon as you can. Assessment Centres for this programme will be held between January – March 2026. We understand that the application process can feel overwhelming, so we’ve put together some helpful information about our assessments—so you know what to expect every step of the way. You’ll also find some top tips to help you feel confident and prepared. Find out more Ready to apply? Ready to dive into the world of Finance? Hear from our Graduates At Vodafone, we pride ourselves on being early adopters of Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology. We embrace innovation and recognise that AI is re-shaping how we live, work – and apply... From the moment they joined Vodafone, the Purpose Pillars—Planet, Inclusion for All, and Digital Society—felt like a natural fit. What began as a graduate programme journey has evolved into a career rooted in connection, collaboration, and meaningful impact. Whether coordinating a squad visit or reshaping payroll architecture, their story reflects how purpose and people truly power Vodafone. Vodafone’s Brighter Futures and Guide Me programs in Romania empower students in underprivileged rural areas by improving school infrastructure and nurturing aspirations. Volunteers renovate classrooms, provide supplies, and mentor teens to help them dream bigger. The initiative has deeply impacted both students and volunteers, fostering growth, connection, and lasting change. Stay Connected Keep up to date with life at Vodafone by following us on social media. Explore our global opportunities