Please choose a location from the list below. If your chosen location doesn’t have an active link to additional careers information, you can still find jobs for the location here. Albania Czech Republic Deutschland Greece Ireland Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Portugal Romania Spain United Kingdom Asia-Pac Middle East Turkey DR Congo Egypt Ghana Kenya Lesotho Mozambique Nigeria South Africa Tanzania Data & Analytics Graduate Programme Shape the Future with Data Our Data & Analytics teams are at the heart our organisation and the key to staying relevant, gaining a competitive edge, and thriving in the digital world. You’ll leverage location-based data from over 500 million global consumers to deliver insights, support smart commercial decisions, develop AI-driven chatbots, and enhance our data platforms. As part of our bespoke, cross-functional programme, you’ll rotate across key data functions within our Commercial or Finance teams, gaining exposure to global projects and diverse workstreams. Close Date: 30th November 2025 Programme details 2 Years 2 x 6 month rotations 1 x 12 month rotation £32,000 + additional £1,000 sign-on bonus and a range of benefits for you London Paddington, along with a blend of hybrid working. 8 days in your office a month, rest from home! 3 Spirit days a year to focus on your Learning and Wellbeing. 20 days a year you can work abroad! 5 charity days a year where can swap your desk for supporting a chosen charity! Teams you could work in Our Data & Analytics Graduate Scheme is designed to give you a broad, hands-on experience across the growing world of Data & Analytics. You could work in teams across: Data Products Data & Transformation Corporate Data Governance Analytics Products Things you could work on You could find yourself: Automating dashboards using tools like Power BI, Tableau, or Qlik Using clustering techniques to build customer segmentation models to group customers based on behavior or demographics Work on predictive maintenance for infrastructure using IoT and machine learning models to predict failures in towers, routers, or servers before they happen Analyse competitor data, market trends, and usage patterns to support data-led pricing strategies Develop algorithms that recommend new plans or services to customers based on behaviour and preferences Every placement will challenge you, inspire you, and help you grow, developing the kind of data leader the future needs. What's in it for you? At Vodafone, we know work isn’t just about the job – it’s about balance, wellbeing, and feeling like your part of something bigger. Our hybrid ways of working allow you to work flexibly, with 8 days a month in the office and the rest from home. Beyond your rotations, you'll have the chance to get involved in various committees and societies, connecting with a global network of over 1,000 Graduates, Apprentices, and Interns. You'll also be paired with a dedicated buddy, someone already enrolled in one of our programmes, who understands what it's like to be in your shoes and can offer valuable support and guidance throughout your journey. But it’s not all about work. You'll enjoy summer socials, inter-company networking events, and opportunities to give back through youth volunteering initiatives. Interested in applying A 2:2 degree in a chosen degree (achieved or predicted). We look for graduates with analytical, numeric or data focused degrees e.g. Big Data, Data Science or Analytics, Mathematics, Science or Technology, Physics. Recently graduated – i.e., a bachelors or masters obtained or to be obtained between June 2024 and August 2026. You must also have the correct right to work documentation in place for the full programme duration. We do not accept the Graduate Route Visa. Close data: 30 th November 2025 Our graduate schemes may close early if we receive a high number of applications, so we recommend applying as soon as you can. Assessment Centres for this programme will be held between January – March 2026. If offered, the start date would be September 2026. We understand that the application process can feel overwhelming, so we’ve put together some helpful information about our assessments—so you know what to expect every step of the way. You’ll also find some top tips to help you feel confident and prepared. Find out more Ready to apply? Ready to dive into the world of Data? Hear from our Graduates At Vodafone, we pride ourselves on being early adopters of Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology. We embrace innovation and recognise that AI is re-shaping how we live, work – and apply... From the moment they joined Vodafone, the Purpose Pillars—Planet, Inclusion for All, and Digital Society—felt like a natural fit. What began as a graduate programme journey has evolved into a career rooted in connection, collaboration, and meaningful impact. Whether coordinating a squad visit or reshaping payroll architecture, their story reflects how purpose and people truly power Vodafone. Vodafone’s Brighter Futures and Guide Me programs in Romania empower students in underprivileged rural areas by improving school infrastructure and nurturing aspirations. Volunteers renovate classrooms, provide supplies, and mentor teens to help them dream bigger. The initiative has deeply impacted both students and volunteers, fostering growth, connection, and lasting change. Stay Connected Keep up to date with life at Vodafone by following us on social media. Explore our global opportunities