Please choose a location from the list below. If your chosen location doesn’t have an active link to additional careers information, you can still find jobs for the location here. Albania Czech Republic Deutschland Greece Ireland Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Portugal Romania Spain United Kingdom Asia-Pac Middle East Turkey DR Congo Egypt Ghana Kenya Lesotho Mozambique Nigeria South Africa Tanzania Application adjustments We want all our candidates to feel comfortable and able to perform at their best throughout the application process. This page provides all the information about the adjustments we offer and a more detailed look into our application process. Tell us about your adjustments At Vodafone, we want to give our candidates as many different ways to contact us about their application and to disclose their adjustments. When you apply for a role, you are given the opportunity to disclose any reasonable adjustments which will be sent straight through to your recruiter. However, if you would prefer to contact our reasonable adjustments specialist for your market, please see the contacts here. Assessments We have a number of different assessment methods at Vodafone, each with their own potential adjustments. We want you to have a the best chance of getting through the assessment stage. Here you can find a few of the most common adjustments but this list is non-exhaustive, and we encourage you to discuss and suggest which adjustments work best for you, and we will seek to accommodate accordingly. Make use of our Recite-me tool bar at the top of our assessment platform, for functionality such as screen colour and increasing t​ext size etc. This assessment isn't timed, so you can take as long as you like and take regular breaks during the assessment.​ You can request your recruiter for an alternative assessment format (e.g. in person or audio recorded). Ask for someone to support you during the assessment (family member, carer etc.) Make use of our Recite-me tool bar at the top of our assessment platform, for functionality such as screen colour and increasing t​ext size etc.​ Arrange alternative assessment arrangement according to your needs e.g. over the phone/in- person/different assessment type/written ​​​ This assessment is timed, so we can allow additional time to respond to questions should it be required. Ask for the assessment questions in advance. Ask for someone to support you during the assessment (family member, carer etc.) Ask the recruiter how the platform can be adjusted for any visual or audio impairments. These assessment are typically timed, so we can allow additional time to respond to questions and breaks during the assessments. Ask for the specific tasks and requirements in advance. Ask for someone to support you during the assessment (family member, carer etc.) Arrange alternative assessment arrangement according to your needs e.g. over the phone/in- person/written ​​ Request a review of your recorded video score if you think you did not perform your best during your assessment. ​ Ask for extra time if necessary ​ Ask for questions in advance if possible Ask for someone to support you during the interview (family member, carer etc.)​ What to expect at one of our interviews? We want you to be comfortable and be able to perform your best during your interviews with us. Below we've provided some insight on what to expect during one of our interviews. Both our spirit and skills and case study interviews are held live, either virtually or in person (typically lasting between 45 minutes and 1 hour). They are designed for you to learn more about the role and ask questions, and for us to test each candidates suitability for the role through questions about working culture compatibility, past experience and candidate motivations. Our Spirit and Skills interviews are divided approximately into two 30 minute sections, with the first dedicated to our spirit behaviours and the other 30 minutes dedicated to skills relevant to role. For our case study interviews , these are normally 45 minutes long and are in the form of a presentation, role play and/or analytical exercise. Presentations - These interviews offers the platform for you to showcase your communication skills, industry knowledge and ability to convey complex ideas. Analytical exercise - These interviews offers the platform for you to showcase your critical thinking, data interpretation and decision-making skills. Role Play - These interviews offers the platform for you to showcase your ability to handle real-world situations, problem solve and adaptability. Interview Adjustments Now you are familiar with what to expect with our interview process, you may recognise that you need an adjustment due to a condition. Below we have listed some of the more common adjustments made to our interview process, however if you feel as though these do not apply best to you, please discuss with your recruiter who will be more than happy to arrange personalised adjustments for you. Common Interview Adjustments: Check the accessibility information for the interview (location/virtual platform) and request an alternative format if necessary (virtual/in person), Ask for additional time for the interview and to answer questions Ask for interview details in an accessible format (larger font, different colour background). Ask for someone to support you during the interview (family member, carer etc.) Apply for an Early Careers Role? Our early careers programs follow a slightly different recruitment process and therefore all this information may not be fully relevant to your role. Please visit our early careers page for full information on the hiring journey. However, if you require additional support with your early careers application, please use the market contacts above. Hear from our people At Vodafone, we have a large community of colleagues with disabilities and adjustments. We asked some of them to share their experiences about working here and the journeys they've been on. Lavinia Koopman Executive Secretary I started my Vodacom journey years back in the call centre, before moving into a more specialised role. I have previously been an Executive Secretary in... Elaine Kelly SMB Fixed POD Lead I recently celebrated my 20th year at Vodafone Ireland – ten in Consumer and ten in the Vodafone Business Unit (VBU). I have had... Ilze Fourie Disability Network Chair I am fortunate that my parents always believed that there is nothing I can’t do when I put my mind to it. I have also... Explore our global opportunities