Please choose a location from the list below. If your chosen location doesn’t have an active link to additional careers information, you can still find jobs for the location here. Albania Czech Republic Deutschland Greece Ireland Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Portugal Romania Spain United Kingdom Asia-Pac Middle East Turkey DR Congo Egypt Ghana Kenya Lesotho Mozambique Nigeria South Africa Tanzania Business Graduate Programme Empowering Businesses in a Digital World We’re leading the digital transformation of industries – connecting people, places, and things with intelligence, future-ready solutions. As a Vodafone Business Graduate, you’ll play a vital role in helping global enterprises thrive. From driving revenue growth to shaping the future of enterprise connectivity, you’ll work at the cutting edge of innovation — supported by Vodafone’s world-class network expertise and our industry-leading IoT platform. Whether it’s enabling smart cities, transforming supply chains, or powering remote work, you’ll help businesses adapt and succeed in an ever-evolving digital landscape. Close Date: 30 th November 2025 Programme details 2 Years 2 x 12 month rotations £32,000 + additional £1,000 sign-on bonus and a range of benefits for you London Paddington, along with a blend of hybrid working. 8 days in your office a month, rest from home! 3 Spirit days a year to focus on your Learning and Wellbeing. 20 days a year you can work abroad! 5 charity days a year where can swap your desk for supporting a chosen charity! Teams you could work in Our Business Graduate Scheme is designed to give you a broad, hands-on experience across the growing world of Business-to-Business (B2B). Strategy & Transformation IoT Global Expansion Business Excellence Product and Portfolio Management Things you could work on You could find yourself working on: Building tailored 5G solutions for industries like healthcare, manufacturing, and logistics Supporting the rollout of smart cities infrastructure – including traffic systems, energy management, and public safety Developing platforms that integrate voice, messaging, video, and conferencing tools for better collaboration Go-to-Market Planning supporting product launches, pricing strategies, and sales enablement for new B2B offerings Sustainability Projects working on green connectivity solutions that help businesses reduce their carbon footprint These projects give you a chance to work with cutting-edge tech, real clients, and global teams — all while developing your commercial and technical expertise. What's in it for you? At Vodafone, we know work isn’t just about the job – it’s about balance, wellbeing, and feeling like your part of something bigger. Our hybrid ways of working allow you to work flexibly, with 8 days a month in the office and the rest from home. Beyond your rotations, you'll have the chance to get involved in various committees and societies, connecting with a global network of over 1,000 Graduates, Apprentices, and Interns. You'll also be paired with a dedicated buddy, someone already enrolled in one of our programmes, who understands what it's like to be in your shoes and can offer valuable support and guidance throughout your journey. But it’s not all about work. You'll enjoy summer socials, inter-company networking events, and opportunities to give back through youth volunteering initiatives. Interesting in applying? A 2.2 in any degree, although a related degree in Business Management, International Business, Economics, Business Analytics, Marketing & Sales is a bonus. Recently graduated – i.e., a bachelors or masters obtained or to be obtained between June 2024 and August 2026. You must also have the correct right to work documentation in place for the full programme duration. We do not accept the Graduate Route Visa. Close Date: 30th November 2025 Our graduate schemes may close early if we receive a high number of applications, so we recommend applying as soon as you can. Assessment Centres for this programme will be held between January – March 2026. If offered, the start date would be September 2026. We understand that the application process can feel overwhelming, so we’ve put together some helpful information about our assessments—so you know what to expect every step of the way. You’ll also find some top tips to help you feel confident and prepared. Find out more Ready to apply? Ready to dive into the world of Business? Hear from our Graduates At Vodafone, we pride ourselves on being early adopters of Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology. We embrace innovation and recognise that AI is re-shaping how we live, work – and apply... From the moment they joined Vodafone, the Purpose Pillars—Planet, Inclusion for All, and Digital Society—felt like a natural fit. What began as a graduate programme journey has evolved into a career rooted in connection, collaboration, and meaningful impact. Whether coordinating a squad visit or reshaping payroll architecture, their story reflects how purpose and people truly power Vodafone. Vodafone’s Brighter Futures and Guide Me programs in Romania empower students in underprivileged rural areas by improving school infrastructure and nurturing aspirations. Volunteers renovate classrooms, provide supplies, and mentor teens to help them dream bigger. The initiative has deeply impacted both students and volunteers, fostering growth, connection, and lasting change. Stay Connected Keep up to date with life at Vodafone by following us on social media. Explore our global opportunities