Please choose a location from the list below. If your chosen location doesn’t have an active link to additional careers information, you can still find jobs for the location here. Albania Czech Republic Deutschland Greece Ireland Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Portugal Romania Spain United Kingdom Asia-Pac Middle East Turkey DR Congo Egypt Ghana Kenya Lesotho Mozambique Nigeria South Africa Tanzania Application Top Tips Be at your best Vodafone is at it's best when our people are. That's why we've created this page to help you navigate our recruitment process with confidence. Think of it as your one-stop guide with top tips for every stage, from submitting your application to preparing and practicing for interviews. Vodafone & AI At Vodafone, we pride ourselves on being early adopters of Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology. We embrace innovation and recognise that AI is re-shaping how we live, work - and apply for jobs. Growing your own skills in this area and using them to help you perform at your best can be a valuable tool during the recruitment process. It can be a helpful ‘thinking partner’ that helps you to structure your thoughts, generate ideas or help you prepare. Just remember, at Vodafone we value authenticity, integrity and fairness, so it’s important that any content you use is personalised and genuinely reflects you, your experiences, your voice, and your motivations. The strongest applications come from candidates who are authentic and share their real-life experiences. Use AI to guide and support you, not to speak for you. Helping to structure and tailor your CV to the role you are applying for Researching the company to learn more about their culture Generating example interview questions or identifying behaviours you may be assessed on Structuring your interview answers and practising them ahead of your interview Making up scenarios that don’t match your real experience Copy-pasting AI-generated answers Using AI during a live interview Getting AI to do your online tests To help you even further we've outlined each of our application stages and provided our top tips on how you can perform at your best. Look out for the 🤖 to indicate where and how you can use AI to support with your applications. Submitting an application Submitting a job application can feel overwhelming, but with the right prep, you can highlight your strengths and make a great first impression. Here’s a simple guide to help you get started:​ Make sure your CV matches the job description. Focus on the key skills and experience that are most relevant to the role and dial that up in your own experiences. 🤖 Ask AI to help identify the key skills or experience from a job advert. Use evidence to show the impact you’ve made as this helps us to see the value you can bring. For example, instead of saying “improved sales,” say “increased sales by 20% over six months.” Aim for 1–2 pages and include relevant information only. Our recruiters review lots of CVs so making sure the most important information or valuable skills are easy to find can help you stand out 🤖 Use AI to get feedback on your finished CV. Preparing for your interview We’ve broken down the interview prep process into four easy steps to help you feel confident and ready. Plus, we’ve included some handy AI tips you can use to make things even better. Research us as a company and the wider telecomms industry, including trends or latest updates. This helps you show you're informed and genuinely interested in joining us. Our Purpose is a great place to start. Learn more about our purpose here. 🤖 Use AI to help conduct your research, but always make sure you fact check. Start by understanding the key skills and behaviours needed for the role you applied for. At Vodafone, we look for people who live our Spirit Behaviours, who want to keeping growing their own skills and have the potential to make an impact. ​Learn more about our Spirit Behaviours here. Now that you've identified the key skills, think about your own real-life examples and how they match to those. Start by listing out the things you're proud of or have achieved in your career so far. Like in your CV, think about the evidence you can use to amplify your achievements. Make sure your examples are authentic and personal to your own abilities - we want to learn about you. 🤖 You can use AI to help polish your answers and check that they match the job description. You'll have an opportunity to ask your own questions which is a great chance to learn more about us and the team you're joining. From the learning tools and growth opportunities available, or the key projects you may be working on in your first year. 🤖 Ask AI to provide some sample questions that you can tailor to the role. Practising for your interview Once you’ve identified the key skills for the role, researched Vodafone and listed your examples, it’s time to practice for your your interview. Here’s how to do it step by step: To support you, we have published some potential questions that you could be asked during your interview. This is a great place to start when drafting your interview answers (Find our Spirit questions here ). Use your examples and build them into structured answers. Some of your examples might work for more than one question, so think about a variety that you can use for different questions asked on the day. 🤖 Use AI to help draft potential skills based questions based on the job advert. Ensure your drafted questions are using the STAR technique (Situation, Task, Action, Result). This structure helps with providing a clear and effective answer, that showcases the impact you made. 🤖 Use AI to check that you are covering all elements and gain feedback on what you can improve Whether its by yourself or with a friend , family member , mentor , or coach, practising your answers can really help. Just saying your answers out loud can help you feel more confident and identify areas to improve. Mock interviews can get you accustomed to the interview environment and can help you to memorise your answers. Ask for constructive feedback and consider what worked well, and what could be clearer or stronger? 🤖 Use AI to review your answers and give you tips to improve. Some tools have voice capability so you can practise out loud and gain feedback on your delivery. Remember , we’re not looking for perfection – we’re looking for potential, passion, and people who want to grow with us. We want to learn about the real you and set you up for success, so getting AI to generate examples that do not accurately reflect your own skills and experience, could risk your performance in the role if you were offered. Using AI prompts Prompts are how you ask AI to do something for you — like creating, summarising, editing, or transforming. Think about prompting like having a conversation, using clear language and providing context like you would when speaking to another person. What response do you want from AI? Why do you need it and who is involved? What information sources or samples should AI use? How should AI respond to best meet your expectations? Here's an example Find me research on the Technological advancements made within the Cyber security industry, to help me prepare for my cyber security lead interview. Focus on finding research from journal articles published within the past 6 months. Please present the research to me in a table format. How we use AI in Talent Acquisition Fairness & Inclusivity Our recruitment process incorporates AI to reduce human bias, ensure a fair evaluation of all candidates and enhance our recruitment process. This includes automating initial resume screenings and matching candidate profiles with job descriptions, promoting a more objective selection process. Our AI tools purchased are rigoursly tested to reduce bias to ensure a fair and unbiased selection process for each candidate. Hiring Efficiency AI supports us in gathering information around candidates skills and assessments, to help Human recruiters and hiring managers make informed decisions. Humans will always review your applications, and it is never left to automated decisions. Interviews and final hiring decisions are led by Hiring Managers and Recruiters. Privacy​ ​ We value your privacy and are committed to protecting your personal information. Our AI systems are designed to handle your data securely and in compliance with data protection regulations. AI helps us streamline the recruitment process while safeguarding your privacy. Adjustments to our application process We want to make sure you are able to perform at your best during our process. We've got lots of useful information, contacts and much more on our dedicated reasonable adjustments page. Explore our global opportunities