Supporting SMEs to digitalise Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are vital to both European and African economies. They represent 99% of all businesses in the EU and 95% of all businesses in Africa - contributing to more than 50% of Europe and Africa’s GDP. We’re supporting SMEs to succeed and thrive in a digital world by offering digital services and tailored support , through our V-Hub platform in Europe and becoming the digital partner of choice in Africa. In Europe, Vodafone Business has two key platforms that support SMEs. Vodafone Business Marketplace Vodafone Business Marketplace is a cloud-based platform that allows Small Business customers to explore, find, buy, and manage their Digital Applications. The Marketplace has various products pre-integrated from collaboration services like Microsoft Office through to IoT solutions. Vodafone works in partnership with AppDirect who power the Marketplace that is used by its customers. Using the platform, Vodafone can provision applications in real time, meeting the needs of its customers in today's on-demand world. Having the platform has resulted in an improved customer experience as well as increasing the customers efficiency when it comes to managing the Vodafone products. V-Hub V-Hub is a Vodafone digital platform for SMEs seeking impartial and actionable advice to help them evolve their business with the right digital solutions. V-Hub supports businesses who lack the skills and in-house tech specialists, who are short on time and pulled in many directions or overwhelmed with digital options and offerings. Through V-Hub, SMEs can access resources tailored to them, create action plans, and engage in one-to-one support, all in one place. The aim is to help SMEs feel equipped and confident to evolve their business digitally. Digital Success Stories Managing over 50,000 online customers and supplying coffee to more than 100 wholesale clients is no easy job. Adam Cozens, Managing Director and Co-founder of London-based independent coffee company Perky Blenders, tells us how he’s used technology to support the company’s goals. Digital Partner of Choice for SMEs in Africa SMEs account for up to 90% of all businesses in African markets and as such, remain one of the main sources of employment. SMEs are predominantly in the informal sector, often small, family-run businesses. They usually operate in sectors such as agriculture, retail, services, and manufacturing. SMEs still face significant obstacles to growth and prosperity, which go beyond the traditional barrier of acquiring finance. Lack of infrastructure can isolate SMEs from markets, opportunities and access to capital, lowering opportunities for growth. African SMEs require digital solutions that are easy to use, localised and affordable, with high degree of flexibility in payment and in local currency. We aim to empower SMEs throughout their digitalisation journey by becoming their Digital Partner of Choice. We do so by providing tailored digital solutions, offering support and expertise, and fostering long-term partnerships to ensure the success of SMEs in their digital transformation. In Lesotho, Vodacom has launched the Software Factory Hub , a four-month incubation programme for innovative tech start-ups in Lesotho. Participants gain access to Vodacom Lesotho's technological infrastructure and support and the programme aims to empower local tech entrepreneurs, reduce reliance on foreign entities and enhance the quality of life through homegrown innovation. Discover more Our latest stories No results found