The grant round for applications closed on Friday 14th February 2025 and will reopen in January 2026. The Frankopan Fund is an initiative of the Staples Trust. It aims to support Croatian students in order to enhance the intellectual capacity and international reputation of Croatia. The Fund was established in 1998 and since then, has awarded 448 grants totalling £741,619. Each year, the Fund makes awards totalling £20,000 per annum to, on average, 20/25 students. 1. Guidelines Applicants must be Croatian students wishing to pursue higher education; The Fund makes Scholarships of up to £2,000 per student, per annum and Awards of £500 per student, per annum; Applicants wishing to pursue further studies in UK or other international institutions are considered. 2. Priority is given To postgraduate students; undergraduate students are unlikely to be considered for an award. To students who have been successful in raising funds for their studies from other institutions; To those individuals who are committed to enhancing the international reputation of Croatia; To those individuals seeking to develop skills that will be valuable to Croatia’s development. 3. Application Requirements If you believe that you are eligible, according to the strict guidelines and priorities above, you will need to send the following information by e-mail (we are unable to accept correspondence by post), in English, to frankopan@sfct.org.uk . Curriculum Vitae (CV); A personal statement, explaining your background, motivations, reasons for wanting to undertake this course of study (no more than one side of A4); A copy of your letter of acceptance from the institution, which confirms the commencement date of your course; An outline of the course – duration, curriculum, objectives; Details of course fees, accommodation and living expenses; Details of funds already secured or expected (such as scholarships, grants, personal funding and loans); A personal reference (from someone who is not a member of your immediate family) (no more than one side of A4); A professional reference (no more than one side of A4). Students who have been successful in securing a Frankopan Scholarship/ Award in a previous year, and who wish to reapply for a consecutive year, are not required to resubmit all previously sent documentation. You are asked to provide: an update on the progress of your studies; a transcript for the last academic year (if available); details of funds already secured, or anticipated; details of outgoings (living/ maintenance costs) for the academic year in which you are applying and notification of any changes in circumstances. You will receive an e-mail acknowledging receipt of your application. Unfortunately we will not be able to consider your application if you have not sent all of the above information. For any enquiries and applications, please contact: frankopan@sfct.org.uk