Ashden – Climate Solutions in Action: The 2023 Ashden Award winners on stage. They are holding their awards in the air and smiling. The Tedworth Trust: Resurgence magazine covers. The Aurora Trust: Keep it in the Ground. The Woolbeding Charity: The Woolbeding Glasshouse at sunset, with gardens in the background. Three Guineas Trust funds Disability Rights UK's policy team The Alan and Babette Sainsbury Charitable Fund funds Southwark Refugee Communities Forum (picture is of group doing workshop to gather feedback from refugee communities for Southwark’s Borough of Sanctuary strategy) The Indigo Trust: Group of people at Ealing Law Centre. They are holding signs which say 'I am for justice, are you?'. The JJ Charitable Trust: UK, Sussex, Surrey, M23 and M25 motorway junction. Glass-House funds the Glass-House Community Led Design Headley Trust funded a curator at Eastbourne's Towner Art Gallery The True Colours Trust: Person holding something. The Linbury Trust: Children performing a play - they are in costumes and smiling. The Jerusalem Trust: An older man reading a Bible. The Mark Leonard Trust: Concert with bright lights. The Woodward Charitable Trust: Group of young children playing. The Staples Trust: People from the Maasai along with Pitt Rivers Museum staff, standing in front of display cabinets. The Sainsbury Family Charitable Trusts (SFCT) is an umbrella organisation that facilitates the work of the grant making trusts and charities established by three generations of the Sainsbury family. SFCT itself does not give grants, and is not affiliated with Sainsbury’s supermarkets (J Sainsbury plc). Each of the 16 trusts, together with associated charitable companies, was set up by an individual member of the family. Each trust is an independent legal entity with a separate focus and board of trustees, in many cases led by the family member who established it. The trusts work in many fields, including the environment, social inclusion, education, scientific research, the arts, and heritage. You can find out more about the work of individual trusts here . SFCT values Governance and legal structure SFCT policies Working for us Jobs SFCT values At SFCT, we: Make a difference: we work together to deliver meaningful and lasting positive change. Are collaborative: we will actively share and apply learning and knowledge to strengthen our work to achieve greater impact. Put people and planet first: we work together to adopt approaches that benefit people and protect the natural world. Commit to diversity, equity and inclusion: we value the diversity of our backgrounds, skills and experiences. We treat people fairly in all that we do. Governance and legal structure Each of our trusts and charitable companies has its own board of trustees/directors and is governed independently. Further details are available on the individual trust pages and via the Charity Commission . Our London office provides shared services across all of the trusts and associated entities. Other offices within the UK and East Africa support individual entities. The shared services are coordinated through SFCT Management Ltd, a company registered with Companies House (company number 04343279). SFCT policies You can see copies of our policies below. Diversity, equity and inclusion policy (PDF) Safeguarding policy (PDF) Privacy policy Complaints policy Working for us Find out more about working for us . Jobs See available jobs .