SFCT is committed to addressing inequality and supporting a fairer society through the trusts’ grantmaking and programmatic work. We aim to provide a supportive environment where all our employees are treated fairly and with respect. How do we define diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) at SFCT? Our approach Our journey so far SFCT’s Staff DEI Network Disability confident employer Living wage employer How do we define diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) at SFCT? Diversity means recognising and valuing the benefits of different perspectives, backgrounds and experiences and taking active steps to address under-representation through initiatives, policies, and systemic change. Inclusion means that we welcome, respect, support and value everyone at SFCT, and that you will be treated equally with respect and dignity, irrespective of your background. Equity means ensuring the fair treatment, access, equality of opportunity and advancement for everyone while also attempting to identify and remove the barriers that have prevented some groups from fully participating. Our approach SFCT has been actively developing our approach to DEI for several years, and DEI is a key workstream in our Learning and Impact Plan. Our approach focuses on: collecting and understanding our data, improving our processes, and collaborating for change with people with lived and learned experience. Our journey so far We are analysing internal data to better understand the current challenges and how we can improve. This includes gender and ethnicity pay gap data, DEI data, and regular opportunities for employees to share their voices. We are working to reduce bias in our recruitment, including the use of the recruitment platform ‘Be Applied’ and by bringing a DEI lens to recruiting with agencies and partners. We have also been accredited as a Disability Confident Committed employer and a Living Wage employer. We provide opportunities and spaces for individuals to learn from people with a diversity of experiences and backgrounds. This includes lunchtime learning events and training sessions, cross-organisational staff groups, focus group conversations and ways to co-create change. We recognise that is an ongoing journey of development, and we always have more to do to achieve our vision for diversity, equity and inclusion. SFCT’s Staff DEI Network The DEI Network began in 2022 and as a group have co-created their own ‘Ways of working’ to ensure an equality of voice. The group functions as a sounding board for office-wide DEI initiatives, creating space for conversations and facilitating cross-organisational learning around DEI. The DEI Network co-created their ‘ways of working’ to outline how they will engage with DEI across SFCT as detailed below: Disability confident employer SFCT is an accredited Disability Confident Employer. This indicates the work we have begun in taking action to improve recruitment and retain people with disabilities. As we continually aim to make our processes and practices more inclusive, we hope to qualify for Disability Confident Employer Levels 2 and 3. This is an accreditation with the government under the Disability Confident Campaign . Living wage employer As an accredited Living Wage employer, everyone working for SFCT earns the real Living Wage or above. You can find out more about the Living Wage here: The Living Wage Foundation .