The trusts provide support across a wide variety of areas, which you can read more about on their pages . Each trust publishes a list of grants in its annual report. Many of the trusts also work with 360Giving to publish information about their grants. Applications 360Giving Other sources of funding Applications The majority of trusts do not have an open application process due to their size or specific focus. We recognise that open application processes can be time consuming for the organisation applying and often do not make the best use of resources of either grantmakers or grantees. Instead, many trusts proactively seek out organisations and initiatives to support, through partnership work and research. The trusts below have their own procedures for grant applications in clearly defined areas, usually for a distinct part of their work. If you are thinking of applying to more than one Trust, or would like to know more about individual application processes, please contact the relevant Trusts directly. To find out more, please view the Trust’s page: The Headley Trust The Jerusalem Trust The JJ Charitable Trust Three Guineas Trust The True Colours Trust The Woodward Charitable Trust The Frankopan Fund – an initiative of the Staples Trust The trusts below do not have an open application process: The Alan & Babette Sainsbury Charitable Fund The Aurora Trust Gatsby Charitable Foundation Glass-House Trust The Indigo Trust The Linbury Trust The Mark Leonard Trust The Staples Trust The Tedworth Charitable Trust These trusts no longer consider grant applications: The Kay Kendall Leukaemia Fund has now completed its active grantmaking and will no longer accept applications. The Monument Trust Trustees have completed their plan to spend the Trust’s endowment and close down the Trust. Grant applications will no longer be considered. 360Giving We believe that with better information, grant makers can be more effective and strategic decision-makers. 360Giving provides support for grantmakers to publish their grants data openly, to understand their data, and to use the data to create online tools that make grantmaking more effective. The following trusts publish their grants data on 360Giving: The Alan and Babette Sainsbury Charitable Fund Gatsby Charitable Foundation The Indigo Trust The Jerusalem Trust (link coming soon) The JJ Charitable Trust The Linbury Trust The Mark Leonard Trust The Monument Trust The Staples Trust The Tedworth Charitable Trust Three Guineas Trust The True Colours Trust The Woodward Charitable Trust To view an aggregated view of all Trusts, please visit this link . Other sources of funding We are not able to support all the ideas shared with us. The following resources might help you to find a suitable funder for your work. This website sets out all the available grants available from National Lottery sources. This site offers help to find funding for heritage-focused projects. The NCVO provide helpful advice and guidance on looking for funding and how to apply. The Esme Fairbairn website also lists a number of resources and sites that may be of interest. Finally, if you are searching for funds, a good place to start is to talk to your local Community Foundation, CVS or Council as many offer grants, advice and sources of help.