Our use of cookies We use cookies to help our site function and to understand how we can improve our content. Before you choose, you can read more about the cookies we use on our cookies page . Advancing social justice On this page Our strategic priorities Our commitment to anti-racism Where our grants go What we are learning How we see our role as a funder Our strategic priorities In focusing our resources to have the best possible impact, we have six funding priorities where we wish to see change. Each of these have distinct areas of focus, but are underpinned by a commitment to social justice. As a result of deep-rooted inequality, many people are excluded from the political, economic and cultural decisions that shape their lives. We are interested in funding work that challenges this injustice. As well as applying for funding , you can find out more about the work that sits behind each of our funds below – including an overview of our funding, the latest insights, and more from our team. Arts Looking at the intersection of art and social change and how we can bring about a stronger cultural sector. Arts Looking at the intersection of art and social change and how we can bring about a stronger cultural sector. Arts Education Exploring how the arts can build equity in education settings, enrich the lives of young people and develop the professional practice of teachers. Arts Education Exploring how the arts can build equity in education settings, enrich the lives of young people and develop the professional practice of teachers. India Our work in India centres around funding small NGOs working with the most vulnerable communities in priority geographical areas. India Our work in India centres around funding small NGOs working with the most vulnerable communities in priority geographical areas. Migration Moving towards a world in which everyone is free to move and no one is forced to move. Migration Moving towards a world in which everyone is free to move and no one is forced to move. Nurturing ideas and people Social change often comes about because of the application of good ideas by passionate people. Nurturing ideas and people Social change often comes about because of the application of good ideas by passionate people. Young people Working with and being guided by young people who face complex transitions to adulthood. Young people Working with and being guided by young people who face complex transitions to adulthood. Our commitment to anti-racism In 2020, we made a commitment to be an anti-racist funder. This commitment informs how we work both as a funder and as an employer. We will use our position and our funding to fight racism in all its forms as well as tackle bias and homogeneity in our own organisation and governance. Find out more about this commitment and our work to progress diversity, equity and inclusion in our work. Where our grants go In 2023/24, we approved 265 grants totalling £57.1 million. Nearly three quarters of our grants and nearly half the value of our funding went towards our six strategic priority areas of funding. These areas each have an open fund anyone can apply to: Arts Fund , Ideas and Pioneers Fund , India Fund , Migration Fund , Youth Fund , and both our Arts-based Learning Fund and Teacher Development Fund which come under our arts education strategic priority. Find out more about the grants we have given by browsing our grants database. What we are learning We are committed to gathering evidence, learning from it and sharing our findings to further understanding amongst others. Racial Justice Audit Analysis of PHF’s UK Grant-making 2023/24 We publish the headline findings from our audit of funding towards Black or minoritised community-led organisations. How we see our role as a funder We want to play our part in pioneering philanthropy, both as an independent grant-maker and as a partner to others in seeking to achieve social justice. With over 10,000 charitable trusts and foundations in the UK distributing almost £3bn of grants, there is a duty for us all to ensure that we target our resources in the most effective way. We look to work with others to make our joint resources go further. Sometimes, this means brokering intelligence and expertise to help others achieve their vision for social change and sometimes it means stepping back to learn. We are committed to developing shared approaches to philanthropy, promoting collaboration and investing in innovation. Unlike statutory funders, foundations can take risks, offer support over longer periods and back causes that feel risky to others. With this freedom comes a responsibility to ensure we are working together to create the best possible environment for the organisations and individuals we want to support. We aim to complement the strategic support of our main funds through additional initiatives that build sector voice, promote their independence and support them to adapt for the future. We also want to be a good neighbour, and encourage others to do the same. We commit 1% of our grant funding annually to support people experiencing disadvantage and hardship within a mile radius of our offices in Kings Cross. Kinship Discovery We are embarking on a new programme of exploration, research, thinking and insight-generation to inform a major new funding initiative focused on young people and hope for the future.