Our use of cookies We use cookies to help our site function and to understand how we can improve our content. Before you choose, you can read more about the cookies we use on our cookies page . Migration Fund Before applying, you must have an enquiry call with our Migration Team. We are currently experiencing a high number of enquiry call requests and may take longer than usual to respond. Work with us to bring about a world in which everyone is free to move, and no one is forced to move. Need to know What you need to know How to apply In this section Aim of the fund Who we want to support How you work What you work on What we will fund What we will not fund Who we have funded Aim of the fund We envision a world where: respect, care and interdependence underpin our relationships with one another; differences of opinion and perspectives provide opportunity for reflection and growth; shared learning allows us to both shape our future actions and to stop us from deepening and consolidating harm. Our funding is our contribution to helping bring about this future. We believe this is only possible through collective and collaborative effort between individuals, organisations, movements, funders and beyond. Our vision of the future, priorities and commitments are all shaped by input from people who work towards migrant justice every day, and those with direct experience of the UK’s previous and current immigration systems. As harmful narratives, laws and policies in the UK and internationally expand, punish migrant communities, and incite fear and division, we will continue to invest in a range of strategies to: prevent a roll-back of rights and implement stronger protections and entitlements for those who move in the ​ ‘ here and now’; build knowledge, solidarity, and power in our communities; support those who are imagining, rehearsing, and practising the future we want to see for us all. You can read more about our consultation process and what underpins our vision in this blog . Who we want to support Our fund focuses both on how organisations work, and what they seek to achieve. We are interested in funding organisations whose principles and practice align with our vision of the future. How you work This means we want to support organisations who are working towards: embedding anti-racist practice across their organisation and work; adopting an organisational culture that centres care and wellbeing; shifting power to migrants and diaspora communities so their interests, perspectives and contributions are centred across the organisation’s work; building solidarity and collaboration across communities, while working towards transformational change that benefits us all; unlearning and challenging the harm, inequity, and oppression within their organisational structures and work; learning, reflecting and being responsive to change. What you work on We want to support work that helps: build a society based on respect, care, and interdependence by dismantling the hostile environment and other harmful laws, policies and practices that negatively affect migrants and diaspora communities; contextualise and tackle root causes of injustice migrants face, building on lessons from our past to dismantle wider systems of oppression and connect with other social justice issues; build collective power within migrant communities through an intersectional lens so they can shape decisions that affect them and create momentum for transformational and positive change; foster solidarity between communities, leading to greater understanding and helping to overcome division; strengthen infrastructure for the migrant justice and related fields, including through supporting greater connection, learning and exchange; and explore alternative futures built on self-determination, justice, acknowledgment and repair for the harms of the past, and where all of us are free to choose where we live. Collaborations, alliances, and coalitions Campaigning and mobilisation Community and worker organising Intersectional non-party political education Migrant and diaspora leadership development Working towards changing law, policy and practice on issues affecting migrant and diaspora communities Strengthening advice infrastructure Community-centred strategic litigation and/​or movement lawyering Challenging anti-migrant and divisive narratives, laws and policies Mainstreaming progressive narratives on migration and belonging We recognise the important connection between service delivery and transformational change. We want to support organisations that build on their services to strengthen relationships with their communities and inform their strategic approach to addressing the root causes of the injustices faced by migrant and diaspora communities . However, we will not fund service delivery that does not directly inform the organisation’s strategy towards addressing root causes of injustices. What we will fund The Migration Fund is open to applications from not-for-profit organisations of any size working anywhere in the UK. Newly established and unincorporated groups are also welcome to apply if they fit our criteria. We will consider: core funding for salaries, organisational costs, etc; funding dedicated to a specific programme; or funding for partnerships. While we will continue to consider applications from a broad range of organisations that align with our vision and critieria, we will prioritise applications from organisations: led by migrants and diaspora communities; that work with historically underfunded groups and regions; with annual turnover under £500,000; or that have less access to funding from other sources. We are committed to addressing historical under-resourcing of smaller community organisations led by and for migrants and diaspora communities. For organisations with an annual turnover of up to £120,000 , we are open to considering grants that cover up to 50% of their annual income. What we will not fund In addition to our general exclusions , we are not able to fund applications for: service delivery that is not directly linked with the organisation’s strategic approach to addressing the root causes of injustices faced by migrant and diaspora communities; activities that focus solely on bringing communities together without a direct link to the organisation’s strategic approach to addressing the root causes of injustices faced by migrant and diaspora communities; academic research and programmes, including partnerships between migrant groups and academia; research that does not demonstrate a direct link between findings and taking action towards addressing the root causes of injustices faced by migrant and diaspora communities; work that focuses on supporting people to enter the labour market, such as writing CVs, preparing cover letters, supporting job interviews, etc; or English language classes. We recognise that these activities are important but, considering our limited funds, these activities are not currently a priority. Who we have funded Case study Action for Race Equality Support for the Windrush Justice Programme Through the Migration Fund, Action for Race Equality supports the grassroots sector to provide advocacy support to those seeking compensation through the Windrush Compensation Scheme. Migration Fund Action for Race Equality Support for the Windrush Justice Programme Through the Migration Fund, Action for Race Equality supports the grassroots sector to provide advocacy support to those seeking compensation through the Windrush Compensation Scheme. Migration Fund Case study Revoke Advocating for the rights and welfare of displaced young people Revoke is a grassroots organisation that advocates for the rights and welfare of underserved young people, particularly refugees, asylum seekers, and those in the care system. Migration Fund Revoke Advocating for the rights and welfare of displaced young people Revoke is a grassroots organisation that advocates for the rights and welfare of underserved young people, particularly refugees, asylum seekers, and those in the care system. Migration Fund In this section Application process Help with applications Application process The Migration Fund operates on a rolling basis. This means organisations can apply at any time as there are no deadlines. If you are interested in applying to the Migration Fund, you first need to submit an enquiry call request form. If you meet the criteria of the fund, we will arrange a call with you to talk about your organisation’s work and priorities and you can ask us any questions you may have. We will discuss whether your work is a good fit for the fund and give you advice on your written application. We aim to respond to an enquiry call request within four weeks. If your work aligns with our Fund’s criteria, you will be invited to make a written application through our portal. You will give us more details about your work, priorities and finances. We only accept applications from organisations who have been invited to apply following an enquiry call. We acknowledge the time and resources required to apply for funding and therefore want to ensure only those who have a clear alignment with our criteria spend time on this step. Getting a decision After making your written application, it usually takes us four months to reach a final decision. We aim to keep all applicants updated during this process, including when you should expect a decision on your application. When you request an enquiry call, we aim to respond within 4–6 weeks. Enquiry calls. All enquiry call requests are carefully reviewed by our team. We offer enquiry calls to organisations we believe fit our priorities or when we need more information before assessing their fit with our criteria. Due to the high volume of requests, we are unable to offer calls to all organisations. We aim to respond to all enquiry call requests within 4–6 weeks. Written application. Each application is individually assessed by two to three members of our Migration Steering Group, which is made up of six independent advisors, our Migration team and four colleagues from other PHF teams. Applications are then discussed and shortlisted by the Steering Group based on the closest fit with our criteria. Shortlisted applications are then recommended to our decision-making panel of trustees and advisors for final decision. We provide feedback to all enquiry call requests and written applications outlining the main reasons why the application was unsuccessful. We provide tailored feedback to all unsuccessful applicants. If your application is unsuccessful, you must wait 12 months from the date of the declination before reapplying to the Migration Fund. Help with applications Access support bursary If this application process is inaccessible to you at any stage, please get in touch. We can provide pre-application access support and a bursary of up to £750 to help you apply. We use an online application system. Please do not submit applications via email as they will not be considered. Sample application forms can be downloaded as Word and large print documents to review in advance. Before starting your application, we suggest you also look at our general eligibility criteria for funding. Get in touch To find out more about requesting an enquiry call or to ask a specific question, not covered here, you can reach us at migration@phf.org.uk Need to know What you need to know How to apply