Our use of cookies We use cookies to help our site function and to understand how we can improve our content. Before you choose, you can read more about the cookies we use on our cookies page . Access support bursary On this page Improving access to our funding Overview of the bursary How to apply for the bursary Improving access to our funding We are committed to making our funding application process as accessible to as many people as possible. We value and appreciate the time and effort it takes to apply, and want to make sure there aren’t unnecessary barriers to doing so. We make it a priority to find ways to make our application process more accessible. For example, we provide sample application forms in Word documents and large print, so that you can review and work on questions in other ways apart from online. But we know there might still be barriers to applying. We hope that by offering a bursary, we can support and encourage more deaf, disabled and neurodivergent people to apply for funding. Overview of the bursary If you are interested in applying to one of our funds, you can do so online at our online funding portal . If you cannot apply online due to a disability or neurodivergence, we can provide a bursary to cover any costs you might have in making an application in another way. The bursary is separate from our funding, so will have no effect on whether or not your application for funding is successful. We generally offer bursaries of up to £750. This is based on the costs of requests we have received in the past, but we consider each request on a case-by-case basis. If your support costs are higher than this, we strongly encourage you to still get in touch. You can also request a bursary at each stage of the application process, not just when you first fill in the application form. For example, if you need a BSL (British Sign Language) interpreter to help with a call to us or to complete a certain stage of the application, you can request a bursary at any stage. The support we offer can vary and we will be guided by what you tell us you need. It could be help with filling in the online application form or having follow-up conversations with our staff. The list below is based on the kinds of support the bursary has provided in the past. Admin support BSL interpreter Notetaker Support worker Transcription Translation, for example from BSL to written English How to apply for the bursary The bursary is designed to pay the cost of any support you might need to complete an application. You won’t need to pay for the support at any point, and whoever is providing the access support will invoice us direct. Contact us to let us know what type of access support you need. You can email this information to accessibility@phf.org.uk or call 020 7812 3300 if you have any questions you would like us to answer before you apply. Your email should include the following. A short description of your access requirements Which fund you’re considering applying to Your name The name of your organisation (if you are applying for funding as an individual, for example through our Ideas and Pioneers Fund or Awards for Artists, this doesn’t apply) Once we have replied confirming we have received your request, we’ll ask you to let us know who you want to provide the support. This might be a support worker or a colleague, who will help you to send your application. We will also need a quote from them. Whoever you choose must be based in the UK and will need to send an invoice to us to receive payment. After we’ve received the quote, we’ll confirm whether your request has been accepted. Once you’ve received the access support, your support provider should then invoice us for the costs and we will pay them direct. Any questions? As well as providing the bursary, we are keen to make wider changes and improvements to make our funding and our work more accessible. If you have any questions or feedback for us, please get in touch. Plain English Campaign’s Crystal Mark applies to this page only. Related content Where does our funding go? Find out more about our grant making and our different funds. Where does our funding go? Find out more about our grant making and our different funds. Information for grant holders Help and guidance for people and organisations we currently fund Information for grant holders Help and guidance for people and organisations we currently fund