Our use of cookies We use cookies to help our site function and to understand how we can improve our content. Before you choose, you can read more about the cookies we use on our cookies page . Youth Fund We want to fund organisations who work with young people (14–25) to drive change so that future generations of young people can thrive. Need to know What you need to know How to apply In this section Aim of the fund Who we want to support What we will fund What we will not fund Who we have funded Aim of the fund We believe that services, systems, structures, processes and practice can support young people to thrive. We want young people to have their voices heard, and to have agency and autonomy to drive changes and improvements which transform their transitions to adulthood. This fund achieves this by: Focusing on young people (14–25) who experience systemic inequity. For these young people, transitions are harder due to the way society, systems and structures operate. This often compounds the inequity they experience. Driving change in systems, processes, structures and practice to create more equitable, inclusive, asset based environments and experiences for young people. Tackling the root causes of inequity and injustice which creates barriers and challenges for young people as they transition to adulthood. Centering young people voice, insight and power. Recognizing that many young people are marginalized or excluded, their experiences hidden or less well known and their voices often erased or ignored. Who we want to support Our fund focuses both on how organisations work, and what they seek to achieve. We are interested in funding: organisations working with young people (14–25); targeted work with and for young people who face transitions in their lives which may be challenging or create barriers for example into or out of education, care settings, housing or the secure estate†; and work that recognizes young peoples multiple and overlapping identities (for example race, gender, sexual orientation, class, faith, migration status, ability). We particularly welcome applications from organisations led by people most impacted by racism, ableism, classism, sexism, xenophobia, homophobia, and/​or transphobia. † The secure estate might include prisons, bail accommodation, youth detention accommodation and approved premises. How you work We support organisations which: work beyond direct delivery to drive strategic and systemic change. We are interested in how your work makes a difference to the future of young people’s transition to adulthood; seek to identify, understand and tackle the root causes of the injustice and inequity that young people face as part of the work; ensure that their work and workforce are representative, respectful, and relevant to the lived experience of the young people they are working with and for; and are committed to anti-racism, which we define as the active work to identify and oppose racism, which includes changing systems, structures, policies and practices, as well as attitudes to create a more equitable society. Organisations will centre anti-racism in the planning and delivery of work and ensure that the processes and approaches are considered through an anti-racist lens. What you work on We fund organisations to drive change so that future generations of young people can thrive. For us, this means work that does the following: Work that asks why is this happening to young people, and addresses the root causes of injustices young people face — for example, exclusion or homelessness By training professionals to provide better services and support to young people; identifying, shaping and sharing best practice; researching and collecting evidence to drive change Influencing organisational or government policy to improve experiences of young people; advocating for improved legislation Holding decision makers to account; ensuring recommendations are implemented appropriately; advocating with and for young people to ensure rights and entitlements are respected Work that makes connections with history, wider systems of oppression and social justice issues. Work that impacts the wider external context in which young people live Blog Creating better futures: what we’re looking for in our Youth Fund Ruth Pryce, our Head of Programme – Young People, explores what we mean by work that goes beyond ​ ‘ direct delivery’. Creating better futures: what we’re looking for in our Youth Fund Ruth Pryce, our Head of Programme – Young People, explores what we mean by work that goes beyond ​ ‘ direct delivery’. We fund organisations who work in an asset-based way . This is a crucial feature of our fund and we look to fund organisations who demonstrate this in their work. For us, this means: Young people are seen for their potential not their current or past experiences Recognising and building on young people’s strengths Centre young people’s power, voice and agency so they can shape decisions that affect them More on asset-based working Find out more about what we mean when we talk about ​ ‘ asset-based working’ and why we want to fund work that starts by recognising and building on young people’s strengths. What we will fund The Youth Fund is designed to be a strategic investment in your organisation, so we only fund: for the full three years and at the amount appropriate to your plans to drive change; organisations where at least 50% of the organisation’s focus is on work with and for 14–25 year olds; and not-for-profit organisations which can be charities, community organisations, social enterprises and not-for-profit companies with a turnover over £30,000 and under £3.5 million. Non-charities must clearly declare how funding is for charitable purposes and have an asset lock in place. For work delivered through partnerships, there must be a lead partner who can receive funds and the partnership must already be active. We provide funding: up to £50,000 per year for three years (max grant £150,000). We prefer to fund organisations at the maximum amount and term. We do not make grants of less than £30,000 per year; to cover core operating costs (salaries, organisation and delivery costs); and to grow the impact of what you already do. We are not looking to fund new or untested approaches, projects or finite pieces of work. What we will not fund In addition to Paul Hamlyn Foundation’s general exclusions , we will not fund: newly registered organisations yet to produce independently audited/​examined accounts; work that is considered a statutory responsibility; project-based activity or work with no scope for impact beyond the organisation’s immediate beneficiaries; service delivery that does not have a specific focus on wider change; research that does not demonstrate a direct link between findings and taking action towards change; work that is focused on young people receiving hospice or end of life care; work delivered by YMCAs unless it seeks to secure significant wider changes in housing provision and entitlements for young people; or work that is focused exclusively on pathways to employment for young people or on pathways to further or higher education, often described as improving young people’s social mobility. We recognise that these activities are important but, considering our limited funds, these activities are not currently a priority. Who we have funded Case study Anti Racist Cumbria Creating a forward-thinking and actively anti-racist Cumbria Anti Racist Cumbria (ARC) aims to make Cumbria the UK’s first anti-racist county. The charity goes beyond just campaigning for change and works countywide with public and private sector organisations, schools and communities to support them to become anti-racist. Youth Fund Anti Racist Cumbria Creating a forward-thinking and actively anti-racist Cumbria Anti Racist Cumbria (ARC) aims to make Cumbria the UK’s first anti-racist county. The charity goes beyond just campaigning for change and works countywide with public and private sector organisations, schools and communities to support them to become anti-racist. Youth Fund Case study Albert Kennedy Trust Tackling LGBTQ+ youth homelessness The Albert Kennedy Trust (AKT) provides support, advice and guidance to young people aged 16–25 who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or queer (LGBTQ+) and who are facing or experiencing homelessness, or living in a hostile environment. Youth Fund Albert Kennedy Trust Tackling LGBTQ+ youth homelessness The Albert Kennedy Trust (AKT) provides support, advice and guidance to young people aged 16–25 who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or queer (LGBTQ+) and who are facing or experiencing homelessness, or living in a hostile environment. Youth Fund In this section Application process Help with applications Application process The Youth Fund operates on a rolling basis. This means organisations can apply at any time as there are no deadlines. Applying to the Youth Fund is a two-step process. You will need to complete a written application using our portal. You will be asked about your organisation’s work, your ambition for change, and for examples of how your work aligns with our Fund’s criteria. You will also be asked to submit a strategic, business or organisational plan and your safeguarding policy. If your written application meets criteria, you will be invited to an online interview. At this point we will ask you to submit further information on finances and fundraising, governance, and impact. The interview will focus on finding out more about the work, meeting those involved and gathering information to inform our decision making. We will provide additional guidance to help you prepare. Following moderation we will decide whether to present your application to our grants panel for a final decision. There are five panels a year, which are made up of trustees and advisors with a wealth of expertise. Usually, after making your written application, it takes us between 4–6 months to reach a final decision. We aim to keep all applicants updated during this process, and you should hear from us within 8 weeks of submitting your written application. Each application is assessed by a member of the team and those progressing to the conversation stage are reviewed by a second member of the team and discussed by the whole team. Applications that align most closely with our criteria are taken to our decision-making panel of trustees and advisors for final decision. We are unable to provide detailed feedback to applicants. However, we aim to explain the main reasons why an organisation has not been invited to interview. Applicants who reach the interview stage but are ultimately not successful will receive written feedback and can request a follow-up phone call. We make 20 grants a year through the Youth Fund and on average, 10–12% of all applicants receive funding. We make 20 grants a year through the Youth Fund and on average, 10–12% of all applicants receive funding. If you’re interested in applying, we highly recommend you look at our page on asset-based approaches to understand the kind of work we’re looking to support. If you’re interested in applying, we highly recommend you look at our page on asset-based approaches to understand the kind of work we’re looking to support. Help with applications Access support bursary If this application process is inaccessible to you at any stage, please get in touch. We can provide pre-application access support and a bursary of up to £750 to help you apply. We use an online application form . A sample application form can be downloaded as a word document, also available in large print, for you to review in advance. Before you start your application, we also suggest you look at: Across all of our work, there are general exclusions to work we can fund. Find out more about this criteria. You can take a look at our webinar to learn more about the Fund’s priorities and the application process, and you can read responses to questions raised during the webinar in our Youth Fund FAQs . To find the most relevant information, you can use these timestamps: 2:29 Overview of Paul Hamlyn Foundation 6:12 Youth Fund eligibility 10:19 Priorities: asset based approaches 12:30 Priorities: ​ “ Young people shaping their own lives” 12:40 Priorities: asset based working in practice 19:12 What you can apply for 22:39 Routes to impact 28:40 Application process and timelines 32:41 What the Youth Fund offers Start your application Log-in or register to our online application form to start your application. If you have questions not answered on our site, please get in touch. Need to know What you need to know How to apply