Our use of cookies We use cookies to help our site function and to understand how we can improve our content. Before you choose, you can read more about the cookies we use on our cookies page . Learning On this page Who we’re funding What we’re learning Learning from grant holders Who we’re funding We share all of the grant making we do. We hope by being transparent, people interested in applying for funding have a better picture of the work we support and what our funding priorities are. We have a historical archive of everything we’ve funded since April 2006 publicly available, which shows you who we’ve funded, what work they do, and how much funding they received. You can see a snapshot of the grants we made in the last calendar year below, which can be sorted by fund and grant size. Where does our funding go? Find out more about our grant making and our different funds. What we’re learning We describe ourselves as a ​ ‘ learning organisation’. One aspect of this learning approach means we look to prioritise learning over outcomes, both in our own work and the work of the people we fund. In our own work, this learning helps us to continually improve our practice and increase the impact of our resources. Fundamentally, we work to understand what we are doing well and what we could do better. To help us with this, there are two regular reports we produce to examine our own grant-making: Grant holder perception surveys – every four years, we commission a survey from the Centre for Effective Philanthropy (CEP) to gather feedback from grant holders and declined applicants about their perceptions of the Foundation, including in areas such as our impact, the application process, their engagement with the Foundation during the course of their grant, and diversity, equity and inclusion. Racial justice audit of our grants – using the toolkit provided by the Funders for Race Equality Alliance (FREA), we analyse the proportion of our funding and grants awarded to organisations led by and for communities experiencing racial inequity each year. Both reports allow us to monitor trends over time, understand our strengths and identify issues, all of which inform continuous adaptation and improvement. These are two of many reviews we have of our grant-making. See our full publications for more. Learning from grant holders Information from the people we fund is crucial to help us better understand our impact. But we try to balance what information we want to know as a funder with what information is useful, interesting and actionable for the people we fund to share with us. With this in mind, our approach to evidence and learning is underpinned by several key practices: Depending on the purpose of the grant, we may expect grant holders to collect evidence and report to us in a very light touch way. Where the work is more innovative or complex and where there is most to learn, we expect more in terms of evaluation. We want to help grant holders to access and develop evidence that is as useful as possible to them. Evidence can include quantitative and qualitative information gathered through formal processes, but we also recognise the importance of pre-existing knowledge, the experience gained from doing and the ​ ‘ intelligence’ acquired from being involved. Where we agree with grant holders that it would be helpful to invest more in evidence and learning, we may offer access to training or help with working with an independent evaluator. The experience and knowledge of those closest to an issue is invaluable. We encourage the organisations we fund to work together with the people they support to co-design and evaluate programmes and services that reflect their needs. We also aim to be a ​ ‘ learning organisation’ that analyses and applies what we’ve learned from our work and the grants we’ve made to continually improve our practice and ultimately to increase the impact of our resources. We want to support those we fund to take a similar view of evidence and learning – as a resource to inform their development and practice. We believe that openness and transparency can help us and others to be more effective. We use the results of feedback from grant holders and applicants to inform our approach. For example, Grantee and Applicant Perception Reports enable us to analyse systematically others’ experience of working with us, to assess what we are doing well and what we could do better. We offer information about the grants that we make through 360 Giving . Sometimes, we invite grant holders with common interests to share experience of what is working and not working. This also helps us to disseminate useful learning about new work. Evidence and learning support As part of our Grant Plus offer, we provide evidence and learning support to organisations we fund. Find out more about what we offer grant holders. Case studies Find out more about the organisations we support and how they work.