Our use of cookies We use cookies to help our site function and to understand how we can improve our content. Before you choose, you can read more about the cookies we use on our cookies page . Grants database From HEAD to TOE: learning to learn St. John’s Stonefold C.E. Primary School with Blue Moose Dance Company Teacher Development Fund £141,500 North West, UK 2025 Blue Moose Dance Company specialises in delivering bespoke, quality, creative and inspiring dance experiences through workshops, school residencies, INSET training and teaching resources for dance in primary, secondary, Further and Higher Education settings. Working with St John’s Stonefold CE Primary School and five other schools in the North East, they will use dance and creative movement to help pupils and teachers make deeper emotional, interpersonal and kinaesthetic connections to academic subjects – kinaesthetic learning being a style of learning where individuals absorb information best through physical activities rather than passive methods. Visit St. John’s Stonefold C.E. Primary School with Blue Moose Dance Company website St. John’s Stonefold C.E. Primary School with Blue Moose Dance Company Blue Moose Dance Company specialises in delivering bespoke, quality, creative and inspiring dance experiences through workshops, school residencies, INSET training and teaching resources for dance in primary, secondary, Further and Higher Education settings. Working with St John’s Stonefold CE Primary School and five other schools in the North East, they will use dance and creative movement to help pupils and teachers make deeper emotional, interpersonal and kinaesthetic connections to academic subjects – kinaesthetic learning being a style of learning where individuals absorb information best through physical activities rather than passive methods. The Magic Storybox approach to primary curriculum Partners in Creative Learning CIC Teacher Development Fund £161,000 West Midlands, UK 2025 Partners in Creative Learning CIC specialise in designing and implementing creative learning programs that engage young people, support teachers’ professional growth and empower educators. Using drama, storytelling and ​ ‘ Immersive Narrative’ techniques, they will support teachers and their learners to create and explore imagined contexts where they face challenges and solve problems to develop real life skills. The work will focus on the English curriculum and oracy, with application across the curriculum and wider impact on both the professional development of participating educators and the personal development of the learners. Visit Partners in Creative Learning CIC website Partners in Creative Learning CIC Partners in Creative Learning CIC specialise in designing and implementing creative learning programs that engage young people, support teachers’ professional growth and empower educators. Using drama, storytelling and ​ ‘ Immersive Narrative’ techniques, they will support teachers and their learners to create and explore imagined contexts where they face challenges and solve problems to develop real life skills. The work will focus on the English curriculum and oracy, with application across the curriculum and wider impact on both the professional development of participating educators and the personal development of the learners. Enhancing curriculum engagement using creative dance approaches Moving Together Teacher Development Fund £134,000 East Midlands, UK 2025 Moving Together is a community dance organisation in Leicester, offering and developing high-quality dance opportunities for participants of all ages and abilities. Working with six primary schools with diverse pupil populations, Moving Together will deliver an initiative to build teachers’ confidence in delivering creative dance within PE lessons, establishing foundational skills and knowledge and embedding inclusive, dynamic, and engaging learning experiences within school. Once embedded, approaches will extend to other curriculum areas, fostering pupil engagement and understanding and exploring dance as a tool to support language acquisition and communication skills. Visit Moving Together website Moving Together Moving Together is a community dance organisation in Leicester, offering and developing high-quality dance opportunities for participants of all ages and abilities. Working with six primary schools with diverse pupil populations, Moving Together will deliver an initiative to build teachers’ confidence in delivering creative dance within PE lessons, establishing foundational skills and knowledge and embedding inclusive, dynamic, and engaging learning experiences within school. Once embedded, approaches will extend to other curriculum areas, fostering pupil engagement and understanding and exploring dance as a tool to support language acquisition and communication skills. The Story Starts With You Z‑arts Teacher Development Fund £164,800 North West, UK 2025 Z‑arts is an arts and theatre venue dedicated to offering activities, shows and events for children and their families. The Story Starts With You is a professional development programme empowering teachers through storytelling and immersive storyworlds. By training teachers as ​ ‘ Story Champions’, the project enhances their skills, confidence, and creativity, enabling them to foster more engaging, joyful, and inclusive learning environments. Visit Z‑arts website Z‑arts Z‑arts is an arts and theatre venue dedicated to offering activities, shows and events for children and their families. The Story Starts With You is a professional development programme empowering teachers through storytelling and immersive storyworlds. By training teachers as ​ ‘ Story Champions’, the project enhances their skills, confidence, and creativity, enabling them to foster more engaging, joyful, and inclusive learning environments. Ceòl (Music) for All Fèis Rois Teacher Development Fund £165,000 Scotland, UK 2025 Fèis Rois gives learners the opportunity to engage with Scottish traditional music and Gaelic culture in a way that supports them to develop social skills and inspires them to reach their full potential. In partnership with Fèis Rois, nine Highland primary schools will examine, challenge and reimagine classroom approaches to literacy, numeracy and wellbeing. Classrooms will be filled with creativity and traditional Scottish music, and classroom teachers will develop the skills and confidence to make music part of the fabric of everyday learning. Visit Fèis Rois website Fèis Rois Fèis Rois gives learners the opportunity to engage with Scottish traditional music and Gaelic culture in a way that supports them to develop social skills and inspires them to reach their full potential. In partnership with Fèis Rois, nine Highland primary schools will examine, challenge and reimagine classroom approaches to literacy, numeracy and wellbeing. Classrooms will be filled with creativity and traditional Scottish music, and classroom teachers will develop the skills and confidence to make music part of the fabric of everyday learning. We Can Do Art: Developing art teaching and wider impact The Kemnal Academies Trust (TKAT) with Turner Contemporary Teacher Development Fund £156,000 South East, UK 2025 The Kemnal Academies Trust believes that no child should face barriers to accessing and achieving in education. They will partner with Turner Contemporary Gallery in Margate to create a model of teacher development that will enhance teachers’ knowledge, practice and confidence with a wider range of art and design materials and techniques. Increased knowledge and confidence will enable teachers and children to be more creative both in art and other subjects, and to think more critically about sustainability and diversity. Visit The Kemnal Academies Trust (TKAT) with Turner Contemporary website The Kemnal Academies Trust (TKAT) with Turner Contemporary The Kemnal Academies Trust believes that no child should face barriers to accessing and achieving in education. They will partner with Turner Contemporary Gallery in Margate to create a model of teacher development that will enhance teachers’ knowledge, practice and confidence with a wider range of art and design materials and techniques. Increased knowledge and confidence will enable teachers and children to be more creative both in art and other subjects, and to think more critically about sustainability and diversity. Creative Writing for Teachers Scottish Book Trust Teacher Development Fund £140,200 Scotland, UK 2025 Scottish Book Trust provides opportunities to improve life chances through books and the fundamental skills of reading and writing. The Scottish Book Trust will deliver professional learning in creative writing through a two-year initiative, connecting seven primary schools in Renfrewshire and Glasgow with authors from their Live Literature Author Directory. This program aims to boost teachers’ confidence as writers and inspire their pupils to develop a love of writing through new areas of creative writing, such as comics, poetry and scriptwriting. Visit Scottish Book Trust website Scottish Book Trust Scottish Book Trust provides opportunities to improve life chances through books and the fundamental skills of reading and writing. The Scottish Book Trust will deliver professional learning in creative writing through a two-year initiative, connecting seven primary schools in Renfrewshire and Glasgow with authors from their Live Literature Author Directory. This program aims to boost teachers’ confidence as writers and inspire their pupils to develop a love of writing through new areas of creative writing, such as comics, poetry and scriptwriting. Teaching Maths concepts through creative techniques St Alphege CE Infant School with Animate Arts Company Teacher Development Fund £161,700 South East, UK 2025 Animate Arts work with people of all ages – from early years, children and young people, to families and whole communities – to bring them together through art projects and creative workshops. Working with St Alphege CE Infant School and five other schools across Kent, they will use visual arts and dance to support teachers and artists to co-develop creative teaching methods for delivering hard-to-grasp mathematical concepts in a non-traditional way. Visit St Alphege CE Infant School with Animate Arts Company website St Alphege CE Infant School with Animate Arts Company Animate Arts work with people of all ages – from early years, children and young people, to families and whole communities – to bring them together through art projects and creative workshops. Working with St Alphege CE Infant School and five other schools across Kent, they will use visual arts and dance to support teachers and artists to co-develop creative teaching methods for delivering hard-to-grasp mathematical concepts in a non-traditional way. Mapping far right activity online Committee on the Administration of Justice CAJ £3,000 Northern Ireland, UK 2025 The Committee on the Administration of Justice (CAJ) is an independent human rights organisation in Northern Ireland. Following the August 2024 riots, CAJ produced an influential report with tech experts Rabble Collective ​ ‘ Mapping Online Far Right Activity in Northern Ireland’ (May 2025). This grant supports a new exercise with the same methodology focusing on the June 2025 racist disturbances in Ballymena. Visit Committee on the Administration of Justice CAJ website Committee on the Administration of Justice CAJ The Committee on the Administration of Justice (CAJ) is an independent human rights organisation in Northern Ireland. Following the August 2024 riots, CAJ produced an influential report with tech experts Rabble Collective ​ ‘ Mapping Online Far Right Activity in Northern Ireland’ (May 2025). This grant supports a new exercise with the same methodology focusing on the June 2025 racist disturbances in Ballymena. Emergency Relief – Manipur Senapati District flood Manipur North Economic Development Association India Fund ₹1,100,000 North East, India 2025 Manipur North Economic Development Association is a non-profit organisation who work across gender, education, business and finance, legal and human rights, energy and environment, disability, child development, agriculture, nutrition, and wildlife. Their work includes livelihood programmes for the families in poverty, peace and community rehabilitation programmes, and raising awareness of disability rights. This grant provides emergency relief to communities affected by the Manipur Senapati District flood. Manipur North Economic Development Association Manipur North Economic Development Association is a non-profit organisation who work across gender, education, business and finance, legal and human rights, energy and environment, disability, child development, agriculture, nutrition, and wildlife. Their work includes livelihood programmes for the families in poverty, peace and community rehabilitation programmes, and raising awareness of disability rights. This grant provides emergency relief to communities affected by the Manipur Senapati District flood. Voluntary Youth Service Strategic Planning – NI Northern Ireland Youth Forum (NIYF) Youth Fund £3,265 Northern Ireland, UK 2025 Northern Ireland Youth Forum is a youth-led voluntary organisation delivering projects across Northern Ireland whilst also promoting youth voice in decision making. This grant provides funding for the development of a unified, strategic plan. With guidance from the Northern Ireland Council for Voluntary Action (NICVA) and the involvement of wider sector stakeholders, they aim to ensure long-term impact, coordination, and sustainability across the youth work landscape. Visit Northern Ireland Youth Forum (NIYF) website Northern Ireland Youth Forum (NIYF) Northern Ireland Youth Forum is a youth-led voluntary organisation delivering projects across Northern Ireland whilst also promoting youth voice in decision making. This grant provides funding for the development of a unified, strategic plan. With guidance from the Northern Ireland Council for Voluntary Action (NICVA) and the involvement of wider sector stakeholders, they aim to ensure long-term impact, coordination, and sustainability across the youth work landscape. LGBT+ Legal Guidance LGBT+ Consortium £7,500 UK 2025 Consortium is the largest network of LGBT+ groups and organisations in the UK. Their goal is to help groups become stronger and more sustainable, so they can provide essential services and advocate for the rights of individuals in the community. Consortium offer information and guidance on various topics, including managing organisations, finances, fundraising, and creating policy documents. Visit LGBT+ Consortium website LGBT+ Consortium Consortium is the largest network of LGBT+ groups and organisations in the UK. Their goal is to help groups become stronger and more sustainable, so they can provide essential services and advocate for the rights of individuals in the community. Consortium offer information and guidance on various topics, including managing organisations, finances, fundraising, and creating policy documents.