Our use of cookies We use cookies to help our site function and to understand how we can improve our content. Before you choose, you can read more about the cookies we use on our cookies page . India Fund Need to know What you need to know How to apply In this section Aim of the fund Who we want to support What we will not fund Aim of the fund Our work in India centres around funding small NGOs working with the most vulnerable communities in priority geographical areas. We believe that communities must be central to the work partners undertake and should place people facing disadvantage in India at the heart of leading change and designing solutions to overcome inequality. The strategic aims of the fund are to: encourage NGOs to take on community-centric development programmes; enable communities to take charge of their own development and improve their lives; encourage development funding to address systemic change; and enhance the capacity of organisations and people who facilitate the above aims. Our India Fund strategic plan This plan provides an overview of the objectives of our work in India for the period of 2023–2033. Who we want to support Organisations supported within the Fund have to be local Indian NGOs with Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) registration. We are looking to fund organisations who are: working with communities to develop their ideas; improving the overall wellbeing of communities in the long-term – not just short-term improvements; developing links between their own work and those of the panchayats (in rural areas) and the municipalities (in urban areas); aware of and mitigating their environmental impact and seeking to improve the ecology of the area they’re based; and working to promote gender equality and support people of all genders to make change. We fund organisations working with vulnerable communities. This includes but is not limited the following groups: Communities with little or no access to education Communities with little or no access to health services Dalit communities, particularly those in dangerous or harmful work Disabled people, particularly children Families living in extreme poverty Tribal communities fighting for or dispossessed of their land and resources Women We want to fund organisations who support these communities to build on their strengths and develop leadership. We only fund work in our priority areas. This focuses on central parts of India which are among the poorest parts of the country, stretching between the eastern part of Gujarat in the west to West Bengal and Assam in the east. We support work in the following states: Madhya Pradesh Chhattisgarh Odisha Jharkhand Bihar West Bengal Assam In addition to these states we also support work in certain culturally identifiable regions in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan which face more extreme poverty than other parts in those states: Mewar and Hadoti (southern and south-eastern Rajasthan) Bundelkhand (Northern Madhya Pradesh and southern districts of Uttar Pradesh bordering Madhya Pradesh) The Dangs (south-eastern Gujarat) Telangana (northern Andhra Pradesh) Vidharbha (eastern and northern Maharashtra) What we will not fund In addition to our general exclusions , we do not support the following: Non-Indian organisations or locally registered branches of non-Indian organisations Organisations without FCRA registration (please note that we do not work on prior permission) Political or religious institutions Applications received through consultants or fundraisers. Please apply to Paul Hamlyn Foundation directly In this section Applying for funding at a micro-level Applying for funding at a meso- or macro-level Help with applications Get in touch Application process There are two ways to apply to our India Fund, depending on the scale of work your organisation does. Our applications are open year-round, and we do not issue calls for proposals. The organisations we support for micro-level activities will be small to medium NGOs who have a direct implementation role with communities. They will be local to their area of work, will have a field presence and will already have implemented (or be implementing) initiatives in that area. They will probably have an annual outlay of less than Rs 1.5 crore (roughly equal to £150,000 GBP) . All micro grants are restricted to the priority geography areas outlined in this strategy. Around 70 to 80 per cent of funding will be at this level. You can submit a written application for funding through our online portal. Applications can be submitted at any time. Please note : if you are planning to submit an application after 20 October 2025 , please apply here as we will be moving to a new application platform after this date. Any applications made before 20 October can be made through the current application form . We assess applications in March and October each year. At the meso/​macro level, we will fund organisations that operate on a slightly larger scale and can view changes from a broader perspective. Initiatives at this level will bring together experiences from multiple smaller micro-level initiatives, compiling and consolidating their learning to help us address factors likely to improve the ecosystem. We see these as organisations of learning that advocate policy change, argue for better implementation of existing policies and enhance the capacities of other NGOs. Organisations funded under this category could be located outside the geographical priority area. Around 10 to 15 per cent of funding will be at this level. As the majority of our funding is at the micro-level, we request that you fill in the meso/​macro application form. You can submit a written application for funding through our online portal. Applications can be submitted at any time. Please note : if you are planning to submit an application after 20 October 2025 , please apply here as we will be moving to a new application platform after this date. Any applications made before 20 October can be made through the current application form . We assess applications in March and October each year. भारत में हमारा काम किस तरह से उभर रहा है नई रणनीति (2023–33) कुछ विशेष सोच और बदलते हुए वातावरण को ध्यान में रख कर लिखी गई है। भारत में हमारे निर्देशक सचिन सचदेवा इस लेख में हमारी नई रणनीति की विशेषताएं का उल्लेख कर रहे हैं और समझा रहे हैं की इस रणनीति में नया क्या है और कौन सी बातों में कोई अंतर नहीं किया गया। Help with applications We use an online application system. When you log in to the online system, you will be asked some eligibility questions to make sure our fund is a good fit for your work. You can preview these questions to review in advance in both English and Hindi. Get in touch Email us If you have questions about the application process or our funding, please get in touch with our India Fund team. Need to know What you need to know How to apply