Our use of cookies We use cookies to help our site function and to understand how we can improve our content. Before you choose, you can read more about the cookies we use on our cookies page . Funding Our funds focus on arts, education and learning, migration and young people. On this page Open for applications Our funding principles Eligibility and exclusions Sample application forms Open for applications Teacher Development Fund Amount: Up to £165,000 per application Duration: Projects should last for two academic years Deadline: 12 November 2025 at 12 noon We support teachers to develop arts-based approaches which create equitable classrooms where all children learn and thrive. Teacher Development Fund We support teachers to develop arts-based approaches which create equitable classrooms where all children learn and thrive. Migration Fund Amount: Up to £60,000 per year (3 to 4 years); up to £50,000 per year (5 years) Duration: 3 to 5 years Deadline: Rolling application cycle Work with us to bring about a world in which everyone is free to move, and no one is forced to move. Migration Fund Work with us to bring about a world in which everyone is free to move, and no one is forced to move. Youth Fund Amount: Up to £150,000 Duration: 3 years Deadline: Rolling application cycle We want to fund organisations who work with young people (14–25) to drive change so that future generations of young people can thrive. Youth Fund We want to fund organisations who work with young people (14–25) to drive change so that future generations of young people can thrive. Arts-based Learning Fund Amount: £30,000 to £300,000; up to £100,000 per year Duration: 1 to 4 years Deadline: Rolling application cycle We support arts and cultural organisations to work in partnership with schools and make arts-based learning a core part of education. Arts-based Learning Fund We support arts and cultural organisations to work in partnership with schools and make arts-based learning a core part of education. India Fund Amount: ₹10,00,000 से ₹40,00,000 Duration: 1 to 2 years Deadline: Rolling application cycle. Applications assessed biannually in March & October. We give India-based organisations the resources they need to help communities build on their strengths and improve lives. India Fund Not currently accepting applications Some of our funds accept applications at set points in the year. These funds are not currently accepting applications but will be open during their next funding round. If you’re interested in our Teacher Development Fund specifically, you can email ela@phf.org.uk to join the mailing list and register your interest for the next round, opening in 2025. Arts Fund Amount: £90,000 to £300,000 Duration: 3 years Deadline: Not currently accepting new applications We want to support organisations who are working at the intersection of art and social change. Arts Fund We want to support organisations who are working at the intersection of art and social change. Ideas and Pioneers Fund Amount: £20,000 Duration: Up to 18 months Deadline: Details of the next round will be announced soon. We support individuals, groups and small organisations who want to explore a new idea for social change. Ideas and Pioneers Fund We support individuals, groups and small organisations who want to explore a new idea for social change. Funding by invitation We have a number of funds which are awarded rather than applied for, including Awards for Artists and Backbone Fund . Access support bursary If our application portal is inaccessible to you due to disability, we offer a bursary of up to £750 to help you apply. Which fund is right for you? If you’ve never been through the process before, use our online tool to find the funding and support that fits what you need. Our funding principles We believe our funding is most effective when it supports organisations and individuals who: Challenge systemic injustice by focusing on structural change and shifting power Challenge systemic injustice by focusing on structural change and shifting power Are actively inclusive and anti-racist Are actively inclusive and anti-racist Centre people experiencing injustice in leading and designing solutions Centre people experiencing injustice in leading and designing solutions Are generous and collaborative, sharing learning with others to drive positive sector change Are generous and collaborative, sharing learning with others to drive positive sector change Eligibility and exclusions Things to know before considering an application: We actively seek to fund work outside of London and across the UK. We only fund work that is charitable , as defined by the Charity Commission . Generally our funds take four months from application to decision. We are unable to cover costs that have already been incurred. Sample application forms You can apply for funding through our online application system. For each fund, we also have sample applications forms you can look at before you apply. Access support bursary If our application portal is inaccessible to you due to disability, we offer a bursary of up to £750 to help you apply. Who we have funded Case study Anti Racist Cumbria Supporting Black, Brown and minoritised Cumbrian communities to shine Anti Racist Cumbria’s grassroots work aims to create a visible and proud Black, Brown and minoritised Cumbrian community who support each other and have a say in the decisions that affect their lives. Youth Fund Anti Racist Cumbria Supporting Black, Brown and minoritised Cumbrian communities to shine Anti Racist Cumbria’s grassroots work aims to create a visible and proud Black, Brown and minoritised Cumbrian community who support each other and have a say in the decisions that affect their lives. Youth Fund Case study The Music Works Using music to support young people to engage with learning The Music Works works with young people in challenging circumstances to support them to transform their lives through music. Arts-based Learning Fund The Music Works Using music to support young people to engage with learning The Music Works works with young people in challenging circumstances to support them to transform their lives through music. Arts-based Learning Fund