Our use of cookies We use cookies to help our site function and to understand how we can improve our content. Before you choose, you can read more about the cookies we use on our cookies page . Living Wage Funder Our commitment to tackle low pay as an employer and funder. On this page What being a Living Wage Funder means How we support organisations we fund to pay the Living Wage What being a Living Wage Funder means As participants in the Living Wage Funder scheme, Paul Hamlyn Foundation is committed to support organisations to pay staff that are funded through our grants at the real Living Wage recommended rates of: £12.60 per hour outside of London £13.85 per hour inside London £12.60 per hour outside of London £13.85 per hour inside London We are also a Living Wage Employer , reflecting our commitment to fair pay for our own staff as well as the organisations we fund. We believe that by paying staff at these recommended levels, the organisations that we fund: acknowledge the true costs of living; value their employees; and are likely to see better staff retention and satisfaction levels. It also reflects our commitment to addressing disadvantage and our belief that responsible pay is a sign of good management. By offering to support funded organisations to pay Living Wages, we hope to contribute to the long-term sustainability of the sectors that we fund. How we support organisations we fund to pay the Living Wage We encourage applicants asking us to fund salaries or staff time to cost this at the real Living Wage rate as a minimum. But it is not a requirement for the posts that our grants are funding to be paid at these minimum levels. We recognise that there are issues for the organisations that apply for funding in terms of maintaining pay differentials, especially where there are a number of identical posts that are funded through different sources or where a single post is funded by more than a single funder. If organisations aren’t able to pay the Living Wage for any reason, this does not mean that we won’t fund these applications. It simply means that we want to fund at the Living Wage levels wherever possible. At Paul Hamlyn Foundation, we already pay all directly employed and third party contracted and sub-contracted staff that work regularly on our premises at least the real Living Wage and, now, we want to make sure that, where possible, we are funding posts at the Living Wage rate too. If your organisation would be interested in becoming a Living Wage Employer or to find out more about these rates, please visit the Living Wage Foundation . Related content Working for us Our values, benefits, and ways of working. Working for us Information for grant holders Help and guidance for people and organisations we currently fund Information for grant holders Help and guidance for people and organisations we currently fund