Our use of cookies We use cookies to help our site function and to understand how we can improve our content. Before you choose, you can read more about the cookies we use on our cookies page . Information for grant holders Help and guidance for people and organisations we currently fund On this page Our relationship with grant holders Reporting guidelines Using our office space Communications support Safeguarding Our relationship with grant holders We want to work alongside the people and groups we fund. We aim to work as flexibly as possible and build strong trusting relationships so that we can use your insights to better support you in delivering your work. We are committed to being an open and trusting grant maker and strive to always follow IVAR’s eight commitments : to not waste time, to ask relevant questions, to accept risk, to act with urgency, to be open, to enable flexibility, to communicate with purpose and to be proportionate. We believe supporting learning is one of the key ways we can drive social change. This means we aim to be a learning organisation and to support you to learn from your work. We hope to build a culture of reflective practice and create an environment of reciprocal knowledge exchange between us, you and the wider communities we work with. We welcome and value your reflections on what is working and what is not. We will use your feedback to learn and strengthen our grant making practice going forward. To support our learning, we collect anonymized feedback from all applicants and grantees through the Center for Effective Philanthropy’s Grantee and Applicant Perception Surveys. We anticipate the next survey will be run in 2025/6 and you can see the results of our most recent survey . If you have feedback on the relationship you have with us as a funder, we encourage you to talk to your Grants Manager. If you have feedback more generally on information or resources you’d find it helpful to have as a grant holder, please get in touch with us at information@phf.org.uk . Reporting guidelines Our approach to our relationship with you and our reporting arrangements will depend on the type of grant you hold. We aim for our approach to be proportionate and tailored to the type of work you are undertaking. These might look different depending on the type of grant you hold. We will regularly review and occasionally update these guidelines – the guidelines below were updated on 8 December 2022. If you have any questions around the content of your reporting, please contact your Grants Manager. Submitting reports You can submit reports in the same online portal as you made your grant application. Log in and read the guidance below to find out how to share a report. Using our office space We want our office to be available to organisations we work with as a space to meet and work. We have two meeting rooms in our central London offices we offer to people we are currently or have recently funded. There is no charge for the use of these rooms. Find out more about how you can request one of these meeting rooms and details about what we offer. Communications support We believe communications and influencing have an important role in helping organisations achieve their aims. We can support you with your communications through amplifying your work, hosting your work and sharing your work with our audiences. We’re keen to amplify the work of the people and organisations we fund. If you have work you’d like for us to know about or to amplify to our audience, please get in touch with our communications team or your main contact at the Foundation. We also host guest blogs and content from organisations we fund directly on our site. You can look at recent pieces we’ve posted to get a sense of our style, but we are open and encouraging of different styles of writing or presenting content. We ask people we fund to use our logo on their website or printed materials where possible. For us, it helps let others know we are supporters of your work and can help similar organisations find funding who might not know about the Foundation. You can download our logos below, as well as some guidelines about how to use the logo most effectively. If you require alternative colours or formats please contact our communications team . Logos for digital ( RGB, png ) ( reversed, png ) Our team are here to support with any communications questions you might have. Feel free to reach out to the whole team on communications@phf.org.uk Olivia is our Head of Communications, having joined the Foundation in 2024. Helen has been our Communications Officer since joining in 2015. Isabel is our Communications and Learning Assistant, having joined the Foundation in 2021. Safeguarding We take our responsibilities to safeguarding seriously, and require the organisations we fund to do the same. You can read our safeguarding policy below and some guidance to organisations about online safeguarding practice. Contact us Have a question not covered by this page? Reach out to your main contact at Paul Hamlyn Foundation or contact us with any questions you have.