Our work The Foundation supports projects that aim to improve the circumstances and future opportunities of the young, the poor and the vulnerable. Supported projects We work with programmes that range from supporting education, healthcare and sustainable development to providing immediate humanitarian relief. We collaborate with other trusted funding organisations and charities to support their projects by providing direct grants, with an aim to support initiatives for an average of three to five years. Our focus is on helping communities in developing countries, and we are open to support selected projects anywhere in the world. The choice of projects is based on our own research. Below, you will find some categories of projects that we provide grants to, together with specific examples of projects we have helped. Child Development and Education We provide grants to projects and organisations that aim to improve access to education and training for disadvantaged children and young people across the developing world. This includes school-building, initiatives to integrate street children and child soldiers into education and work, and programmes to protect the education and life chances of orphans and young girls. The foundation has supported the Childs Dream Foundation exist to ensure that children and young adults in the Mekong Sub-Region, affected by inequality, grow up to be healthy and have access to quality education and better employment opportunities. As well as Magic Bus who aim to put children and young people in India on the path from Childhood to Livelihood. Disease Prevention and Child Health The Foundation supports projects and organisations working to prevent the spread of diseases such as cholera, malaria and HIV in the developing world. We focus on assisting efforts to improve access to health education and treatment for children and mothers. For instance, we supported the work of Médecins Sans Frontières Switzerland on immunisation and to reduce the coverage disparities of vaccines that can prevent more than 20 life threatening diseases. Water and Sanitation Access to clean water and hygienic sanitation are essential to lead dignified human lives. The Foundation supports projects to bring these resources to communities. Working with partners such as WaterAid , the Foundation supports global projects and efforts in countries such as Pakistan to promote sanitation and hygiene. Hunger and Malnutrition We support projects and organisations that combat the threat or effects of hunger and malnutrition, especially among children. The Foundation supports organisations such as Mary’s Meals that provide nutritious school meals to children living in some of the poorest countries. The promise of a good meal attracts these hungry children into and to stay in the classroom, giving them the energy to learn and hope for a better future. Humanitarian Relief After natural disasters have struck communities, the Foundation has provided financial assistance to efforts to bring humanitarian relief and reconstruction to affected areas. Human Trafficking Human trafficking is a violation of human rights that preys on vulnerable individuals for financial gain. Victims are often deceived with false promises of employment or a better future, only to find themselves trapped in situations of forced labour, sexual exploitation, or involuntary domestic work. We work with S-Cape who create a sanctuary with safe housing and restoration for women survivors and their children. Contact Please contact us by email: Email info@vonopel-foundation.ch Charity No.1172977