The Black Heart Foundation has a long history of supporting initiatives which create and improve... WITHOUT A SENSE OF CARING, THERE CAN BE NO SENSE OF COMMUNITY The Foundation and its Beneficiaries... continue to seek, generate, expand and improve innovative pathways to learning, aspiration and achievement for under-resourced children and young people. The Foundation’s interests lie in supporting community initiatives that best support young people at the grassroots level; where the Foundation’s funding can make the most significant impact on behalf of those children in their environment. The Foundation is a registered charitable enterprise in both the United Kingdom and the United States. BOUNDARIES DON'T KEEP OTHER PEOPLE OUT, THEY FENCE YOU IN The Black Heart Foundation was founded... IF THERE'S A WAY TO DO IT BETTER... FIND IT The Foundation was established... with initial funding from private sources. Additional funding from individuals and families continues. This is augmented by donations and contributions from corporate supporters who make both financial and in-kind contributions of products, services and personnel. EDUCATE, INSPIRE AND MOBILIZE The Foundation currently supports... a number of community initiatives that provide benefits or improve educational outcomes for disadvantaged young people. The Foundation has a particular interest in children’s health and well-being, and in the use of sport to inspire and engage youth on the path to greater educational achievement. The Foundation’s relationship to the sporting world is also an important creative resource for its work and facilitates some of its key fundraising endeavours. From formal academic learning to vocational field experience, The Black Heart Foundation supports a broad variety of initiatives in diverse settings. These initiatives share a key goal: to create and provide enriching, artistic, inclusive and inspiring educational environments that provide an effective bridge to higher aspirations and achievements in young people. Physical and mental health are critical elements of a solid foundation for learning. Where children have disabilities or deficits in physical and/or mental health there may be distinct educational challenges to overcome. The Foundation supports initiatives that recognise and support the interdependence of mental and physical health and education as a means to promote children’s overall flourishing. Sport has the potential to engage, influence and inspire young people. Important lessons in the pursuit of excellence, teamwork, discipline, leadership, and sportsmanship can be learned by participating in sport and competition. The Foundation has a particular interest in programmes that deploy sports as a means of education about physical and mental health, personal wellbeing, aspiration and pathways to excellence.