What does the Black Heart Foundation do? The Foundation’s goal is to inspire aspiration and remove barriers to achievement for the people it helps and serves. The Foundations primary focus is educational access, learning, aspiration and achievement for under-resourced people from under-represented communities. The Foundation also proactively supports local organisations by distributing grants to initiatives that support the community and provide coaching and pastoral care to talented, ambitious and committed young people. What is the eligibility criteria for a Black Heart Scholarship? The scholarship programme is open to all who are hardworking, under-resourced and who have ambition. All applications are reviewed holistically and are assessed on an individual basis. The application is not limited to University courses, we encourage all those pursuing vocational and non traditional courses to also apply. How do I apply? How do I fill in the traditional application form? What financial documents do I need to provide? In relation to the financial information, we normally look at documents such as confirmation of student loans, savings, bursaries and grants etc. you do not need to send your bank statement at this time. If we need additional information further down the line will request it. We will use this to confirm some of the information on your budget sheet. If you have not applied for other grants, scholarships, loans or have not made any other financial applications please let us know why in the comments section on the budget sheet. How much are scholars typically awarded? The Foundation’s primary aim is to provide gap funding however, the amount of funding awarded is assessed on an individual basis. Applications are reviewed on a holistic basis taking into account educational activity, finances, social circumstances and personal aims for future outcomes. So, please apply for what you need. Can I apply for a scholarship before I have received my place? Yes, you can apply for a scholarship before you get you place but we prefer that you know where you are going before you apply as the cost between Universities, educational institutions and courses can vary quite significantly. If you chose to submit an application before you receive your place, please ensure you fill out the application based on your first choice. I have submitted my application, when can I expect to hear back? We aim to conduct reviews twice a year. When you submit your application, you will receive a response indicating when we expect to get back to you. Reviews are subject to the Board’s availability. We review a large number of applications but aim to get back to applicants by the deadline indicated in the confirmation email. What is the application deadline? Applications are accepted and reviewed twice a year Cohort 1: Applications will be accepted between March and August and applicants will be informed of the outcome by October Cohort 2: Applications will be accepted between August and October and applicants will be informed of the outcome by January We will not be accepting applications between 1st November – 28th February. Any applications received during this time it will be added to the applications to be reviewed as part of cohort 1 Please check the website for the exact dates for when the cohorts will be open. The process is longer than I expected, what can I do? The review process takes place twice a year to manage the number of applications we receive and scholar expectations. Unfortunately, this may not fit with the timing of a particular course or programme therefore, we normally leave it up to the candidate to ascertain if they would like to continue to pursue the scholarship or not. Please note the scholarships are highly competitive and not guaranteed so where possible you should always be seeking alternative sources of funding. Can you review my application early? Unfortunately, we are not in the position to review applications earlier than specified. Is there an age limit? We do not have an age limit. Applications will be reviewed on a holistic basis taking into account educational activity, finances, social circumstances and personal aims for future outcomes. Do you support people wanting to study outside of the UK and US? The Scholarship Programme supports candidates with their educational endeavours primarily in the UK and US but is open to considering work in other education resource limited geographies. The demand for scholarships is high and therefore submissions that are closely aligned to the aims of The Foundation have the highest chance of success. How likely am I to be successful? We do not quote a ‘success rate’ as all applications are assessed on individual merit and we do not cap the number of awards we can give out in any one period. We receive a high volume of applications and the scholarships are highly competitive and not guaranteed, so where possible you should still always be seeking alternative sources of funding. I applied and was unsuccessful, Can I reapply? Yes, we do allow applicants to reapply a year from the date of their original application. Can I request specific feedback if my application is unsuccessful? Unfortunately, due to the large number of applications we receive we are not able to provide individual feedback to applicants. What happens to my data? The Black Heart Foundation are committed to ensuring protection of all personal information that we hold, and to provide and to protect all such data. We recognise our obligations in updating and expanding this program to meet the requirements of GDPR. For information on how we handle and use your personal information, please refer to The Black Heart Foundation Privacy Policy. Details can be found via the following link: https://sparebuild.hostspark.uk/privacy-notice/