As we step into 2025, The Black Heart Foundation proudly celebrates a remarkable milestone: our 25th anniversary. Over the past quarter-century, we have made significant strides in our mission to broaden access to educational opportunities for underprivileged youth, empowering them to realize their full potential. This year not only marks a celebration of our past achievements but also sets the stage for an ambitious future. Our plans for 2025 are driven by an invigorated focus on expanding our fundraising efforts, leveraging the power of social media to reach wider audiences, and setting ambitious goals that will amplify our impact. Each Year. Every Year. The Foundation's mission is to remove the barriers to greater aspiration and achievement in education and in life for talented , ambitious and dedicated children and young adults. The Black Heart Foundation and the programmes and institutions that it supports provide inspiration, counsel, guidance, care, mentorship and financial assistance to a wide range of children and young adults from diverse backgrounds and environments. The Foundation has hosted numerous "Friends" events to raise funds to complement its resources and to support its work in the community . For 15 years since 2000, the Foundation has held a Charity Golf Championship for supporters and friends. Stay tuned for the Foundation's 20th Anniversary Charity Tournament and Celebration in 2020! Make a donation of your choice or support a Scholar and become a Black Heart Ambassador and join the Foundation's Hall of Legends with a one off gift of £10,000. Learn more about us... Hear from Black Heart Foundation Trustee Michael Vaughan Hear from Black Heart Foundation Trustee Matt Dawson BE INSPIRED JOIN THE MISSION KEEP INFORMED BE INSPIRED JOIN THE MISSION KEEP INFORMED The Foundation is dedicated to improving the educational access, quality and outcomes for children from under privileged backgrounds in low resource environments and those who are otherwise 'at risk' due to poor health or nutrition. The Foundation was established with initial funding from private sources. Additional funding from individuals and families continues. This is augmented by donations and contributions from corporate supporters who make both financial and in-kind contributions of products, services and personnel. The Foundation is a registered charitable enterprise in both the United Kingdom (gift aid qualified) and the United States (tax deductable). EDUCATING THE MIND WITHOUT EDUCATING THE HEART IS NO EDUCATION AT ALL The Black Heart Foundation’s supported institutions and programmes augment a variety of educational environments and provide the ongoing pastoral care and support to ensure the success of these endeavours. “ The Black Heart Foundation scholarship has helped me in ways that are difficult to articulate in words. Firstly, I remain wholly grateful for the Foundation’s monetary support, without which I wouldn’t have had the means to enroll on the Legal and Political Theory MA course at UCL… – David Ejim-McCubbin ” comments provided by the Foundation's contributors, supporters and friends Note the special ethos of inspiration, creativity and commitment that The Black Heart Foundation achieves through its leadership and programmes. “Thank you and all the rest of the team for organising as always the most fabulous day at Wentworth; it is undoubtedly the premier event of its kind, although as you know my golfing experience is somewhat limited. The sheer amount of effort and organisation is immense and delighted that so much money was raised.” “Working with The Black Heart Foundation is fantastic. It gives a sense of pride to be working with a dedicated team of people who want to bring a positive change in peoples lives.” “What a triumph, what a tour de force! After many years in the circle of golf, cricket, music and film charity events, I can say with hand on heart (Black Heart) that your hospitality, generosity and warmth goes to create the greatest day of them all.” “A HUGE thank you for the most fantastic day possible. You do fantastic work with your Black Heart Foundation and it’s very inspirational. The day, the evening, the company, the golf, the fundraising, the music, the sports stars, the midnight floodlit golf, the generous gifts and all the other events were just superb – couldn’t have been better!” “It is great to see the success being fostered at EYLA and that, quite apart from the enjoyment, shows that your golf days are leaving a sizable legacy.”