The Samworth Foundation is an independent, grant making foundation based in the East Midlands who fund throughout the UK and internationally. We believe in bringing about positive change by working with inspiring organisations whose work benefits individuals and communities. Our mission is to be an effective and responsive funder by supporting our grantholders to be more resilient, manage risk and strengthen their infrastructure, improving their ability to respond to their communities. We are a pro-active funder with a dedicated team who research and use our networks to identify potential partners. Most of our grantholders are based in the UK and work within our key funding themes of Modern Slavery and Exploitation and Environment and Climate Change. Grants are often given over a three-year period and we will fund project, core, and unrestricted costs. Modern Slavery and Exploitation We are committed to supporting work that helps to bring about systemic change and seek to fund organisations that safeguard people from slavery and exploitation, including those addressing the systems and structures that enable the issue to persist, whilst also ensuring survivors and those at risk have access to high quality support. Building lives free from modern slavery and exploitation Safeguarding people from modern slavery and exploitation Ensuring survivors and those at risk have access to high quality support Better systems, structures, and practices that reduce the risk of slavery and exploitation Strong, effective organisations working with survivors and those at risk Environment and Climate Change We are committed to safeguarding our natural world, and seek to fund organisations who are working to restore the health of the environment, as well as those who are addressing the systems and behaviours that have a negative impact on our planet. Building better agricultural systems that enhance nature and address climate change. Initiatives that raise the ambition of governments and others to reform policy and legislation that balance climate, nature, and food production Work that demonstrates the benefits of climate and nature positive farming Better systems, structures and practices that lead to a reduction in harm from agriculture Strong, effective organisations working to promote nature and climate positive farming Harvesting crops by combine harvester. Midlothian, Scotland. Summer 2022. Credit: Barrie Williams/Scottish Government Photographer name: Barrie Williams/Scottish Government The Samworth Foundation has signed up to the Funder Commitment on Climate Change.