We are governed by Trustees who are engaged in the delivery of our strategy and who give their time to review grant applications, visit grantholders and grow our networks. They bring a wide range of knowledge and expertise across the not-for-profit sector and to supporting our committed staff team who manage the Foundation’s day-to-day operations. Mark Samworth Chair Mark is a member of the funding family and Chairman of Samworth Brothers (Holdings) Limited, a leading food producer based in Melton Mowbray, Leicestershire. He has a personal interest in ecology, habitat restoration and the environment and is proud to continue the family’s support for those who suffer exploitation at the hands of others. Daniela Lloyd-Williams Trustee Daniela has been working in the charitable sector since 2005, focusing on international development. Prior to that she worked for IFAD, a specialised agency of the UN. She is the Director of JAC Trust, a small family foundation that funds communities at the frontline of climate change, specifically forcibly displaced people and the communities that host them. Daniela is a former convenor of the Association of Charitable Foundation’s (ACF) Smaller Funder Network and was elected to the Board of ACF in 2022. A life-long learner, Daniela completed a MSc in Grantmaking and Philanthropy at Bayes Business School in 2020, she also has a PhD in Agricultural Economics. Belinda Gordon Trustee Belinda is a Director of Policy and Public Affairs at the Landscape Institute, following two years as a freelance environmental strategy and policy consultant. Until 2022 Belinda was Strategy Director at environmental think-tank Green Alliance where she was responsible for developing and executing the organisations strategy and maximising impact on environmental policy and politics. Prior to joining Green Alliance, Belinda worked at CPRE, the countryside charity; in the Science Policy Centre of The Royal Society and at Defra on a broad range of environmental issues. Naeema Ahmed Trustee Naeema is an advocate for race equality, diversity and inclusion, with a focus on modern slavery and human trafficking. As Network Manager for the UK BME Anti-Slavery Network (BASNET), part of AFRUCA Safeguarding Children, she has played a key role in expanding the network of Black and Minority Ethnic (BME) grassroots organisations addressing modern slavery in the UK. Naeema is also the Public and Community Engagement Lead for the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Knowledge Mobilisation in Public Health Project, where she fosters inclusive participation in health research by engaging diverse communities and stakeholders. She is driven by a passion for equality and a commitment to amplifying the voices of marginalised communities in the fight against exploitation. Kathryn Carney Trustee Kathryn has both lived and learned expertise in modern slavery and exploitation. Having personally navigated and overcome challenges of exploitation, Kathryn combines deep empathy with a profound understanding of the structural and systematic issues that perpetuate human trafficking, forced labour and exploitation in today’s world. In addition to her lived experience, Kathryn has built a robust career over 28 years in Human Resources, holding strategic roles in the public and private sector Kathryn has led global initiatives to drive systemic and sustainable change, advising organisations on ethical labour practices, and collaborating with policy makers to eradicate exploitation. Andrew Fordham Trustee Andrew is an experienced fundraising and philanthropy leader, with more than a decade’s experience leading teams in the charity sector. He is Director of Income & Engagement at Breaking Barriers, a specialist refugee employment charity supporting refugees and other forcibly displaced people to access meaningful employment. In this role, he has developed and led innovative partnerships with charitable foundations, philanthropists, and corporate partners to deliver positive change across the UK. His prior experience includes Alzheimer’s Society, Terrance Higgins Trust and The University of Nottingham. He has also served as a Trustee of Mosaic LGBT+ Young Person’s Trust and on the committee of the Chartered Institute of Fundraising’s Major Donor Special Interest Group. Nathalie Walters Foundation Director Nathalie joined the Foundation in January 2022. She works closely with the Trustees, the team and grant holders to ensure all aspects of the Foundation’s strategy, governance and grantmaking are delivered effectively. Nathalie has been involved in the not-for-profit sector for over 25 years, as an employee, volunteer and trustee. She joined the Foundation from her previous role as Head of Operations with the Rights Lab – a research unit working to end modern slavery – at the University of Nottingham. Prior to this, she spent seven years as Chief Executive of a small charity working with children and young people affected by exploitation. Nathalie also serves as Chair of BBC Children in Need’s Central Region Committee. Jennie Thomas Grants Manager Jennie joined the Foundation in August 2022 and assists with all aspects of the Foundation’s grant making by managing the application process through to the assessment and monitoring. Prior to this Jennie has been involved in the environment and water sector for the last 11 years and has experience working with a wide variety of groups, joining the Foundation from the water industry where she was working on nature-based solutions in the agricultural and water environments, promoting biodiversity and improved water quality. Jennie is a trustee for Community Action Norfolk (CAN), the leading organisation for engagement with the voluntary, community and social enterprise (VCSE) sector in Norfolk. Samantha Billington Grants Manager Sam joined the Foundation in November 2021 and assists with all aspects of the Foundation’s grant making by managing the application process through to the assessment and monitoring. With over 15 years experience in the voluntary sector working with a range of small to medium charities Sam has led on developing and delivering strategies to increase income and develop stronger infrastructure. Prior to joining the Samworth Foundation Sam worked in the violence against women and girls (VAWG) sector delivering domestic abuse training to professionals and as income generation lead. Sam is a trustee for Carers Federations Limited, an organisation dedicated to supporting carers of all ages and the people they look after.