About Us Our history Our people Waddesdon Manor Work with us Spencer House Publications FAQs Sustainability About Us Our history Our people Waddesdon Manor Work with us Spencer House Publications FAQs Sustainability Our Support Buckinghamshire Grants Case studies Charity of the Year Dialogues Access Support Sharing our Learning Acknowledging your Grant Our Support Buckinghamshire Grants Case studies Charity of the Year Dialogues Access Support Sharing our Learning Acknowledging your Grant NEW Online grant portal Sign up to our newsletter News Contact us Buckinghamshire Grants Buckinghamshire Grants We offer open grant programmes for not-for-profit organisations benefiting communities in Buckinghamshire. Our funding themes: Align with our heritage at Waddesdon Manor and interests in arts and creativity. Support sustainable approaches to safeguarding the natural environment. Focus on building a positive future for resilient communities. Our Programmes: Schools Access Fund Grants of up to £1,000 to enable Buckinghamshire schools to access educational workshops at Waddesdon Manor. Grants of up to £1,000 to enable Buckinghamshire schools to access educational workshops at Waddesdon Manor. Community Fund Grants of up to £30,000 over three years for charitable activities that benefit Buckinghamshire communities. Grants of up to £30,000 over three years for charitable activities that benefit Buckinghamshire communities. Strategic Fund Grants of up to £300,000 over 3 years for activities in Buckinghamshire benefiting the arts, heritage and the environment. Grants of up to £300,000 over 3 years for activities in Buckinghamshire benefiting the arts, heritage and the environment. Green Fund The application deadline for the Green Fund has now passed. We will offer Green Fund grants of up to £10,000 to existing Community and Strategic Fund grantees from September 2025. The application deadline for the Green Fund has now passed. We will offer Green Fund grants of up to £10,000 to existing Community and Strategic Fund grantees from September 2025. How to apply: If you would like to talk to us about your application you can set up a meeting or share pre-application questions by emailing: [email protected] Access Support Fund grants are available for people with literacy, language, vision or other needs when making an application. Watch our ‘Meet the Funder’ application advice webinar. The Rothschild Foundation Windmill Hill Silk Street Waddesdon HP18 0JZ Find us on: Career opportunities Contact us Privacy policy All Rights Reserved © The Rothschild Foundation Registered Charity No 1138145 Registered Company No 7350078