About Us Our history Our people Waddesdon Manor Work with us Spencer House Publications FAQs Sustainability About Us Our history Our people Waddesdon Manor Work with us Spencer House Publications FAQs Sustainability Our Support Buckinghamshire Grants Case studies Charity of the Year Dialogues Access Support Sharing our Learning Acknowledging your Grant Our Support Buckinghamshire Grants Case studies Charity of the Year Dialogues Access Support Sharing our Learning Acknowledging your Grant NEW Online grant portal Sign up to our newsletter News Contact us Buckinghamshire Grants Community Fund Our support: The Rothschild Foundation’s Community Fund supports local organisations in Buckinghamshire, particularly those addressing disadvantage and inequality. The Fund aims to build the capacity of local organisations, charities and groups offering solutions that address: Homelessness Financial hardship Physical and learning disabilities Mental health and wellbeing Support is available to groups and organisations that can demonstrate clear need and demand for their services. We encourage using data and research to demonstrate the need, efficiency and impact of charitable work, especially using the Bucks Data Exchange . Funding of up to £30,000 over three years (maximum of £10,000 per year) is available. Who Do We Fund: Not-for-profit organisations with income of under £1 million annually providing a service in Buckinghamshire can apply. Organisations registered with a regulating body, such as the Charity Commission or Companies House, can apply for a grant for up to 3 years. Groups, societies and sports clubs not registered with a regulator can apply for a grant for 1 year only. Organisations that work outside Buckinghamshire must show that a large proportion of their work is based in Buckinghamshire and that they have strong partnerships with local organisations here. Newly established organisations that do not yet have a set of annual accounts may apply for a grant for 1 year only. What Do We Fund: We fund project, core and capital costs. Where the funding is capital only, we prefer to not be the only funder. How to Apply: Applications are made online through our grants portal . Application deadlines every year: 27th January 18th April 27th August 18th November Applicants will be notified if their grant is awarded within 6 weeks of each deadline. All applications require policies for: Safeguarding Health and Safety Equality GDPR Applicants for grants of £5K or more must have an Environmental Sustainability policy All applicants must share: Governing document or constitution demonstrating three Directors or Trustees. Management accounts Applicants for grants of £5K or more must share a full project budget, or an organisational budget if applying for core costs Proof of your organisation’s bank account If your grant application is unsuccessful, you will receive feedback explaining why. You can apply again at any time, but it’s a good idea to speak with a Grants Manager beforehand. Learning Together: Community Fund grantees share an annual written report. This includes a narrative on the activities delivered with your grant, any evidence collected, key learnings, expenditure to date, and information on who has benefitted. Organisations awarded a grant of £5K or more also provide a breakdown of grant expenditure. Funded organisations are invited to a biennial networking event to share knowledge, learn from each other, and connect with programme experts. If you want to publicly acknowledge the Rothschild Foundation’s support, you can download our logo from our website after your grant is awarded. Please get our approval before using the logo in any materials. Exclusions: We don’t fund in Milton Keynes or counties neighbouring Buckinghamshire. For-profit organisations, businesses and individuals seeking bursaries or scholarships cannot apply. Grants are not awarded to reimburse the costs of activity that has already taken place. We don’t fund uniformed groups, promotion of religion, overseas travel, animal welfare and campaigns. Organisations may only hold one grant from the Community Fund at any time. A full list of funding exclusions can be found in our FAQs. Video Guidance for the Community Fund Application form Start a new application Apply now Continue an existing application Return to your application Resources The BDEx is a free resource designed to help small charities in Buckinghamshire better understand the needs of the communities they serve and show the difference they’re making. Use the BDEx to equip your organisation with the insights needed to develop services that meet people’s needs and support your fundraising. The BDEx hosts Local Insight, a free and easy-to-use platform that lets you explore data about the area you work in. Visit the site The Rothschild Foundation Windmill Hill Silk Street Waddesdon HP18 0JZ Find us on: Career opportunities Contact us Privacy policy All Rights Reserved © The Rothschild Foundation Registered Charity No 1138145 Registered Company No 7350078