About Us Our history Our people Waddesdon Manor Work with us Spencer House Publications FAQs Sustainability About Us Our history Our people Waddesdon Manor Work with us Spencer House Publications FAQs Sustainability Our Support Buckinghamshire Grants Case studies Charity of the Year Dialogues Access Support Sharing our Learning Acknowledging your Grant Our Support Buckinghamshire Grants Case studies Charity of the Year Dialogues Access Support Sharing our Learning Acknowledging your Grant NEW Online grant portal Sign up to our newsletter News Contact us Access Support Access Support Fund We want to make sure that the Rothschild Foundation’s resource is accessible. If our grants portal, application and reporting guidance are not easy for you to access, it’s possible to request an Access Support grant of £300 to help overcome the barriers you encounter. Access Support Fund grants are available for people with literacy, language, vision or other needs. They may be used to pay for a support worker, scribe, translator, sign-language interpreter or other support service as required. Please get in touch with us to apply to the Access Support Fund. You may phone a member of the Grants team directly on: +44 (0) 7739 363 866 Email us at [email protected] . You can ask a support worker to get in touch with us or complete our online Access Support Fund application form on your behalf. Making an Access Support Fund Application We will ask you about the charitable organisation or group you represent and confirm it is eligible for either our Community or Strategic Funds. You will also be asked to outline your Access Support needs. It’s possible to share this with us verbally, in an email or by completing an online form. We will let you know within one month if your Access Support Fund application is successful. Access Support Fund grants will be paid to the charitable organisation or group making a Community or Strategic Fund application. Recipients of Access Support funding will be offered further advice on making an application to our Community or Strategic Fund. Support workers can be given access to our online grants portal or a paper-based application form can be provided. Organisations that have not applied or received funding from the Rothschild Foundation previously will be prioritised for the Access Support Fund. We aim to be adaptable to meet your needs and we welcome feedback on our Access Support Fund. Application form Start a new application Apply now The Rothschild Foundation Windmill Hill Silk Street Waddesdon HP18 0JZ Find us on: Career opportunities Contact us Privacy policy All Rights Reserved © The Rothschild Foundation Registered Charity No 1138145 Registered Company No 7350078