About Us Our history Our people Waddesdon Manor Work with us Spencer House Publications FAQs Sustainability About Us Our history Our people Waddesdon Manor Work with us Spencer House Publications FAQs Sustainability Our Support Buckinghamshire Grants Case studies Charity of the Year Dialogues Access Support Sharing our Learning Acknowledging your Grant Our Support Buckinghamshire Grants Case studies Charity of the Year Dialogues Access Support Sharing our Learning Acknowledging your Grant NEW Online grant portal Sign up to our newsletter News Contact us Buckinghamshire Grants Strategic Fund Our Support: The Strategic Fund supports organisations that share our commitment to creating positive change in Buckinghamshire. We’re particularly interested in working with partners who understand the needs of local communities and can show evidence they are making a difference in the county. The Strategic Fund offers grants of up to £300,000 over 3 years for activities addressing our priorities: Arts & Heritage Environment Who Do We Fund: Not-for-profit organisations providing a service in Buckinghamshire can apply. Organisations registered with a regulating body, such as the Charity Commission or Companies House, can apply for a grant for up to 3 years. Groups, societies and organisations not registered with a regulator can apply for a grant for 1 year only. Newly established organisations that do not yet have a set of annual accounts may apply for a grant for 1 year only. What Do We Fund: We fund project, core and capital costs. Where the funding is capital only, we prefer to not be the only funder. Applications which help organisations to work together and develop partnerships are welcome. How to Apply: Online through our grants portal . Applications under £30,000 Deadlines every year: 27th January 18th April 27th August 18th November Applicants will be notified if their grant is awarded within 6 weeks of each deadline. Applications over £30,000 Deadlines every year: 31 st March 1 st September Grants are awarded following Trustee meetings in July and January. All applicants must provide: Safeguarding policy Health and Safety policy Equality policy GDPR policy Environmental Sustainability policy (if the application is over £5k) Governing document or constitution demonstrating three Directors or Trustees Management accounts A full project budget, or an organisational budget if applying for core costs (if the application is over £5k) Proof of your organisation’s bank account If your grant application is unsuccessful, you will receive feedback explaining why. You can apply again at any time, but it’s a good idea to speak with a Grants Manager beforehand. Learning Together: We use outcomes to understand how our grants and our actions contribute to our strategy. When applying to the Strategic Fund, grantees must select up to two outcomes that their funded activity will contribute to. You will also need to explain how your activity will support these outcomes and describe how you will monitor and evaluate your activity in relation to them. Read about the outcomes we want to support here Arts & Heritage , Environment . Strategic Fund grantees share an annual written report. This outlines what has been delivered with a grant and how this contributes to the outcomes we aim to achieve. It includes any changes to your original plans, within a funded organisation or with partners. We ask that you describe who has benefited from the funded activity and share any evidence you have collected. We’re interested in what our grantees have learned and how this will inform future planning. Reports include a breakdown of expenditure and details of any additional funding secured since receiving support from the Rothschild Foundation. Strategic Fund grantees may meet with members of the Grants team annually to reflect on learning over the course of their funding. Funded organisations are invited to a biennial networking event to share knowledge, learn from each other and connect with programme experts If you want to publicly acknowledge the Rothschild Foundation’s support, you can download our logo from our website after your grant is awarded. Please get our approval before using the logo in any materials. Exclusions : We don’t fund in Milton Keynes or counties neighbouring Buckinghamshire. For-profit organisations, businesses and individuals seeking bursaries or scholarships cannot apply. Grants are not awarded to reimburse the costs of activity that has already taken place. We don’t fund promotion of religion, overseas travel, animal welfare and campaigns. A full list of funding exclusions can be found in our FAQs. Application form Start a new application Apply now Continue an existing application Return to your application Resources The BDEx is a free resource designed to help small charities in Buckinghamshire better understand the needs of the communities they serve and show the difference they’re making. Use the BDEx to equip your organisation with the insights needed to develop services that meet people’s needs and support your fundraising. The BDEx hosts Local Insight, a free and easy-to-use platform that lets you explore data about the area you work in. Visit the site The Rothschild Foundation Windmill Hill Silk Street Waddesdon HP18 0JZ Find us on: Career opportunities Contact us Privacy policy All Rights Reserved © The Rothschild Foundation Registered Charity No 1138145 Registered Company No 7350078