Application guidance Eligibility Only UK based organisations seeking funding for a UK based project may apply via this site. Organisations in Israel should see the guidance on applying in Israel . It is important that you read the information about what we fund before submitting an application. Please note that applications should not be submitted to both the Wolfson Foundation and the Wolfson Family Charitable Trust at the same time, and that applications submitted to one Wolfson charity may be passed to the other if it is deemed more appropriate. Application process We run a two stage application process. Stage 1 applications are submitted online via our GrantsConnect site . Please note you will need to register an account with GrantsConnect before starting an online application. Information that we need at this stage includes a brief description of the project, including the total cost, the current funding shortfall and the proposed timetable. It is important that the application comes with the full backing of the institution and applicants should confirm that they have the support of the Chief Executive or equivalent. View the list of questions asked at Stage 1. Audited accounts for the past two years should also be submitted with the online application. The accounts provided should relate to the ongoing underlying operating activities of the organisation itself and not a related fundraising arm or charity. We undertake a financial appraisal of all applications, and you may be asked by our Finance Director to respond to specific queries. If your Stage 1 application is successful, we will invite you to submit a Stage 2 application. Stage 2 applications are submitted online and are by invitation only. Please read our guidance (PDF) on what to include in a Stage 2 application. Stage 2 applications are sent out to expert reviewers, before being considered by our trustees who meet once each year in September or October. Key dates for 2025 Open to Stage 1 applications: 1 April 2025, 00.01 Deadline for Stage 1 applications: 1 June 2025, 23.59 Deadline for Stage 2 applications: 14 July 2025, 23.59 Meeting of Trustees: October 2025 If a deadline date falls during a weekend, we are happy to accept applications that arrive by 9am on the following Monday. Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Safeguarding Policy Photo Credits Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Family Charitable Trust Registered Charity in England and Wales (registration no. 228382) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Grants in Israel Funding for universities and hospitals Funding for other organisations Information for grant holders Wolfson Advisory Committee Israel Funding for universities and hospitals Funding for other organisations Information for grant holders Wolfson Advisory Committee Israel Grants in the UK What we fund Application guidance Information for grant holders What we fund Application guidance Information for grant holders About Introduction Trustees Wolfson Jewish Education Fund Introduction Trustees Wolfson Jewish Education Fund Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy