Funding for universities and hospitals Our main funding programmes in Israel are currently focussed on universities and hospitals, allocating about £2.5 million each year. These are proactive programmes and closed to speculative applications. We support the most outstanding researchers to tackle issues of fundamental importance. A prerequisite for top quality scientific research is access to cutting edge (often highly expensive) equipment. Yet finding support for equipment is often the most challenging part of the funding ecosystem. So, over the past few years, funding for universities has been for equipment supporting nationally co-ordinated programmes on important research themes including desalination and single cell analysis. Funding for hospitals is mainly for medical equipment, generally with a research focus. The Trust is advised by an Advisory Committee in Israel, chaired by Professor Daniel Zajfman, and drawn from leading academic and medical experts. The Advisory Committee co-ordinates our programmes for universities and hospitals, and invited applications are submitted via the Committee before being forwarded to our UK office for further consideration. Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Safeguarding Policy Photo Credits Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Family Charitable Trust Registered Charity in England and Wales (registration no. 228382) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Grants in Israel Funding for universities and hospitals Funding for other organisations Information for grant holders Wolfson Advisory Committee Israel Funding for universities and hospitals Funding for other organisations Information for grant holders Wolfson Advisory Committee Israel Grants in the UK What we fund Application guidance Information for grant holders What we fund Application guidance Information for grant holders About Introduction Trustees Wolfson Jewish Education Fund Introduction Trustees Wolfson Jewish Education Fund Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy