Information for grant holders All awards made to organisations in Israel are administered by the Trust’s office in the UK. Successful applicants will receive a letter outlining the award and any associated conditions. Grants awarded are also subject to conditions (PDF) . It is important that we receive written confirmation of acceptance of a grant and the conditions attached to the award. Grants must be claimed within a year of the award, unless we have agreed otherwise. In the meantime, we appreciate being kept up to date on the progress of your project via a report due by 1 July each year. Email us (opens a draft email with recipient populated) your completed reports. Grants can be claimed (in arrears) once the element of the project that we are funding has been carried out, even if the main project is still ongoing. We make grant payments at the end of every month, except in August, when no payments are made. If you send us your claim documents by the 15th of the month, we shall try to release your grant in the same month. Please note that payment is never guaranteed for a particular month and after your documents have been checked by our office, they need to be approved by our auditors and trustees before the grant can be released. To claim your grant, please send us the following: Your covering letter should: Include your 5 digit grant reference number Explain how the invoices relate to the original application and confirm that they have been paid Acknowledge that where eligible expenditure does not meet or exceed the value of the grant, any remaining amount will be relinquished Paid invoices or architect’s certificates that equal or exceed the value of the grant, excluding ineligible costs ( read exclusion notes ). These should refer to work carried out or equipment ordered after the date of the award (if these are not in English, they should be certified in English by an independent auditor). A photocopy of a paying in slip or other bank document showing details of a UK bank account into which the grant is to be paid, which should include all of the following: account name, account number, sort code, and bank name and address. Payment can only be made to the UK bank account of a registered or statutory charity (or equivalent). The name, telephone number and email address of the person we should contact if we have a query about your claim. Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Safeguarding Policy Photo Credits Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Family Charitable Trust Registered Charity in England and Wales (registration no. 228382) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Grants in Israel Funding for universities and hospitals Funding for other organisations Information for grant holders Wolfson Advisory Committee Israel Funding for universities and hospitals Funding for other organisations Information for grant holders Wolfson Advisory Committee Israel Grants in the UK What we fund Application guidance Information for grant holders What we fund Application guidance Information for grant holders About Introduction Trustees Wolfson Jewish Education Fund Introduction Trustees Wolfson Jewish Education Fund Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy