Privacy policy Your data will be treated in compliance with the provisions of the GDPR and Data Protection Act 2018 by the Wolfson Foundation, as the registered data controller. The Wolfson Family Charitable Trust is a separate charity to the Wolfson Foundation, with the same administration but its own constituted board of trustees. As a grant-making charity, applicants for funding voluntarily provide information in order to facilitate our grant-making and to further our charitable activities. Privacy Notice for Applicants, Grantees & Scholars This privacy notice explains how The Wolfson Foundation (“ we “, “ our “, “ us “) collects, uses and shares your personal data, and your rights in relation to the personal data we hold. This privacy notice concerns our processing of personal data of: applicants for grant funding grantees (i.e. those grantees who have been awarded grant funding) scholars and others in our alumni community (i.e. those who have received grant funding from the Foundation in the past) visitors to our websites (together, “ you “, “ your “). The Wolfson Foundation (a company incorporated in England and Wales with company number 08927040, and registered charity number 1156077, and which is registered with the Information Commissioner’s Office with registration number Z4842730) is the data controller of your personal data and is subject to the General Data Protection Regulation (the “ GDPR “) with effect from 25 May 2018. We may collect your personal data in a number of ways, for example: from the information you provide to us when you interact with us before making an application for grant funding; when you submit a formal application for an award; from third parties, for example partner organisations (including your previous or current institutions of study) and experts involved in the peer review process for assessing grant applications, in order to verify details about you and/or your application for an award, or to administer your grant once awarded; when you communicate with us by telephone, email or via our website or our social media channels, for example in order to make enquiries about an application or an award; in various other ways as you interact with us during your time as a grantee, and as a member of our alumni community, for the various purposes set out below. Where you provide us with personal data relating to others (for example, where you are making an application for grant funding on behalf of someone else or where you nominate a reviewer to liaise with the Foundation about your application), we understand that you are authorised to provide that information to us, and that you have provided this Privacy Notice to them, as appropriate. We may collect the following types of personal data about you (and anyone at your organisation who we need to carry out due diligence checks on, for example): contact and communications information, including: your contact details (including email addresses, telephone numbers and postal addresses); your communication preferences; records of communications and interactions we have had with you, including information provided through our website (e.g. in online RSVP forms for events) or via social media; biographical, educational and career information, including: your name, title and date of birth; details of your education, including academic achievements; details of your professional activities and employment, including professional achievements; lifestyle information and social circumstances, only where relevant to your application or award (for example details of your ‘life events’ such as birth or adoption of children) where this affects your receipt of grant funding from us); your interests and extra-curricular activities, where relevant to your application or award; information concerning your engagement with us, including attendance at our events, responses to surveys or focus groups, records of meetings, etc.; technical data relating to your use of our website, collected through the use of cookies. A cookie is a small file which asks permission to be placed on your computer’s hard drive. Once you agree, the file is added and the cookie helps analyse web traffic or lets you know when you visit a particular site. Read here for more information on our Cookie Policy . and any other information relevant to a grant funding application or award. We may also collect sensitive personal data, including information concerning your health and medical conditions (e.g. disability and dietary needs), where this is necessary for the provision of an award to you or where you attend one of our events and we need to cater for your attendance. If we lose touch with you over time, we may use external sources to ensure that our contact details for you are up to date, allowing us to continue to communicate with you about certain events and activities which may be of interest to you. If you do not wish the Foundation to do this for you, please contact us using the details at the bottom of this document. We may also use external sources, such as information you have publicly shared on social media, to keep track of how your career has developed, for the purpose of our monitoring and evaluating how the Foundation’s grant funding awards have been used and will be best used in the future. In collecting this information, we are not intending to process it as your personal data so much as in an aggregated form for the Foundation’s statistical purposes. The purposes for which we may use personal data (including sensitive personal data) we collect during an applicant’s, grantee’s or scholar’s association with us are all at their heart designed to further our charitable objectives, which are essentially to support and promote excellence in the fields of science and medicine, the arts and humanities, education and health and disability. We do this by: reviewing applications for grant funding and assessing their relative merits, including by considering whether the application fits one of our current areas of funding, arranging visits to your premises (in some cases) and by consulting third party experts for peer review purposes as part of the Foundation’s two stage grant application process; providing you with information about our awards and our activities and publishing case studies and news items about our grantees and their studies, work and other achievements on our website and in electronic and printed publications such as newsletters and invitations to events (which we may send to you by post, email and potentially by other means, depending on your communication preferences); maintaining an archive with records of previous grants and previously supported grantees (for more information, please see our website ) providing opportunities for Foundation alumni including scholars to network and connect around academic interests; administrative purposes, for example in connection with an event you have registered for or attended; conducting surveys, focus groups and other research; internal record-keeping, including the management of any feedback or complaints. We may process your personal data because it is necessary for the performance of a contract with you or in order to take steps at your request prior to entering into a contract. In this respect, we use your personal data for the following: to interact with you before you before you make an application for one of our awards (for example, to send answer any questions you have about an award); when you submit a formal application for an award, in order to assess your eligibility for that award; if you are successful in your application, to provide you with an award in accordance with all relevant terms and conditions (and, in this respect, we may process your personal data in connection with any checks to ensure that you are complying with the conditions of your award); to deal with any concerns or feedback you may have; for any other purpose for which you provide us with your personal data in connection with an application or award, including when you interact with us in accordance with the terms and conditions applicable to the use of our website. We may also process your personal data because it is necessary for our or a third party’s legitimate interests. Our “legitimate interests” include our charitable objectives as briefly summarised above. In this respect, we may use your personal data for the following: to monitor and evaluate the performance and effectiveness of our awards; to seek advice on our rights and obligations, such as where we require our own legal advice; to keep you informed (by letter, telephone, email and other electronic means) of information, stories and news which may be of interest to you. (If you do not wish to receive such information, or if you wish to receive this information only by certain means of communication, please let us know now or at any time in the future, and your details will be removed from our mailing list or your communication preferences will be updated, as applicable.) We may also process your personal data for our compliance with our legal obligations. In this respect, we may use your personal data for the following: to meet our compliance and regulatory obligations; for the prevention and detection of crime; in order to assist with investigations (including criminal investigations) carried out by the police and other competent authorities. We may also process your personal data where: it is necessary to protect your or another person’s vital interests (in very limited circumstances, essentially where this is a matter of life or death); it is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims (for example, to protect and defend our rights or property, and/or the rights or property of our grantees, partner organisations or scholars); we have your specific or, where necessary, explicit consent to do so. For the purposes referred to in this privacy notice and relying on the bases for processing as set out above, we may share your personal data with certain third parties. We may disclose limited personal data to a variety of recipients including: to our partner organisations (including your previous or current institutions of study) where necessary for the assessment of your application or administration of your award, and afterwards where we seek to keep in touch with you or keep track of your career as an alumnus or scholar; third party reviewers and experts nominated by you (or selected by us) for peer review purposes; our employees, agents and contractors where there is a legitimate reason for their receiving the information, including third parties where we have engaged them to process data on our behalf as part of administering the award application process; internal and external auditors; when the Foundation is legally required to do so (by a court, government body, law enforcement agency or other authority of competent jurisdiction), for example by the Charity Commission. As a matter of course, since the Foundation’s grant-making activities are UK based and grants are primarily available to charities in the UK, we do not transfer your personal data outside of the European Economic Area. We may, however, transfer your personal data around the world on an ad hoc basis, for example where this is necessary for interaction with you, and you are located outside of the EEA. In such circumstances, we will consider whether any additional measures are required in order to give adequate protection for the information when it is transferred outside of the EEA. Certain personal data relating to unsuccessful applicants is deleted within two years of the end of the application process, except that a record of the applicant’s name, proposed project title, partner organisation with whom they are affiliated, and progress through the application process is retained indefinitely in the Foundation’s archive for statistical / research purposes. For successful applicants (grantees), subject to any other notices that we may provide to you, we may retain your personal data indefinitely after you have finished complying with all the terms and conditions applicable to your award. We will retain alumni and scholar personal data in order to support your life-long relationship with the Foundation. However, if you wish to leave the alumni community, please let us know and we will delete your personal data (except for a skeletal record of your award details, for archiving purposes). Under the GDPR, with effect from 25 May 2018, you have the following rights in relation to our processing of your personal data. Please note that these rights are not absolute, and we may be entitled (or required) to refuse requests where exceptions apply. to obtain access to, and copies of, the personal data that we hold about you; to require us to correct the personal data we hold about you if it is incorrect; to require us to erase your personal data in certain circumstances; to require us to restrict our data processing activities in certain circumstances; to object, on grounds relating to your particular situation, to any of our particular processing activities where you feel this has a disproportionate impact on you; to receive from us the personal data we hold about you which you have provided to us, in a reasonable format specified by you, including for the purpose of you transmitting that personal data to another data controller; and where our processing is based on your consent, you may withdraw that consent, without affecting the lawfulness of our processing based on consent before its withdrawal. Note : If you have given your consent and you wish to withdraw it, please contact us using the contact details below. Please note that where our processing of your personal data relies on your consent and where you then withdraw that consent, we may not be able to provide all or some aspects of our services to you and/or it may affect the provision of those services. If you are not satisfied with how we are processing your personal data, you can raise a concern with the Information Commissioner. You can also find out more about your rights under data protection legislation from the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) . Our website may contain links to other websites of interest. However, once you have used these links to leave our site, you should note that we do not have any control over that other website. Therefore, we cannot be responsible for the protection and privacy of any information which you provide whilst visiting such sites and such sites are not governed by this privacy statement. You should exercise caution and look at the privacy statement applicable to the website in question. If you have any queries about this privacy notice or how we process your personal data, or if you wish to exercise any of your rights under applicable law, you may contact our Information Officer by telephone: 020 7323 5730 or by post: Information Officer, The Wolfson Foundation, 8 Queen Anne Street, London, W1G 9LD. Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Safeguarding Policy Photo Credits Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Family Charitable Trust Registered Charity in England and Wales (registration no. 228382) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Grants in Israel Funding for universities and hospitals Funding for other organisations Information for grant holders Wolfson Advisory Committee Israel Funding for universities and hospitals Funding for other organisations Information for grant holders Wolfson Advisory Committee Israel Grants in the UK What we fund Application guidance Information for grant holders What we fund Application guidance Information for grant holders About Introduction Trustees Wolfson Jewish Education Fund Introduction Trustees Wolfson Jewish Education Fund Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy