What we fund The Wolfson Family Charitable Trust funds mainly in Israel. However, we also fund capital projects supporting the UK Jewish community. Our particular areas of focus are older people and people with disabilities; education; and culture and heritage. Eligible organisations Organisations should have charitable status (or equivalent), be based in the UK, generally have an annual income of above £50,000, and show evidence of long-term financial viability. Within the cultural field, organisations should have a national reputation for excellence. In the area of heritage, we are particularly interested in historic synagogues. Eligible projects Funding is provided for capital projects only (i.e. buildings, refurbishment or equipment). Projects should be ongoing after the date of any award (i.e. not complete by the time that trustees consider the application). Applicants should provide matched funding (which should be guaranteed). Requests should generally be in the range of £10,000 – £50,000 (only very exceptionally are awards made above this range). Exclusions Examples of ineligible projects and costs include: The purchase of land or existing buildings (including a building’s freehold) Grants direct to individuals Grants through conduit organisations Overheads, maintenance costs and VAT Non-specific appeals (including circulars) and endowment funds Costs of meetings, exhibitions, concerts, expeditions, conferences, etc. Film or promotional materials Repayment of loans Projects that have already been completed or will be by the time of award Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Safeguarding Policy Photo Credits Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Family Charitable Trust Registered Charity in England and Wales (registration no. 228382) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Grants in Israel Funding for universities and hospitals Funding for other organisations Information for grant holders Wolfson Advisory Committee Israel Funding for universities and hospitals Funding for other organisations Information for grant holders Wolfson Advisory Committee Israel Grants in the UK What we fund Application guidance Information for grant holders What we fund Application guidance Information for grant holders About Introduction Trustees Wolfson Jewish Education Fund Introduction Trustees Wolfson Jewish Education Fund Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy