Funding for other organisations A small number of awards are made for cultural institutions with national importance, as well as for organisations working with people with disabilities. This programme is currently closed to speculative applications. The Trust works on a proactive basis with a small number of organisations that undertake excellent work in our areas of interest and as such, this programme is closed to speculative applications. Should a grant be awarded, administration of the award – including the processing of grant claims – is undertaken by the Trust’s office in the UK. Grants can only be paid into the UK bank account of a British registered charity and all grants are offered and paid in UK sterling. Read more information for Grant Holders Cultural and smaller organisations that receive an award are generally not eligible for further funding until some five years from the date of the award have elapsed (though where the project is on a different site, the gap may sometimes be reduced to three years). Accessibility Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Safeguarding Policy Photo Credits Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Family Charitable Trust Registered Charity in England and Wales (registration no. 228382) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Grants in Israel Funding for universities and hospitals Funding for other organisations Information for grant holders Wolfson Advisory Committee Israel Funding for universities and hospitals Funding for other organisations Information for grant holders Wolfson Advisory Committee Israel Grants in the UK What we fund Application guidance Information for grant holders What we fund Application guidance Information for grant holders About Introduction Trustees Wolfson Jewish Education Fund Introduction Trustees Wolfson Jewish Education Fund Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy