Search Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Our Impact Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Funding Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply About Us About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees Latest News Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Contact Contact Get in touch Contact details Contact Get in touch Contact details Partnerships Overview Empowering our community through new partnerships and funding Our partnerships and innovative funding approaches enable us to provide better support for our local community. Collaboration is at the heart of what we do, and we strive to connect our partners so they can share skills, knowledge, and resources. We are proud of the collaborative projects we are co-developing with local partners. Learn more about our initiatives and the meaningful impact we’re creating together. Narrowing the Gap Our first Education Partnership Grant Our Narrowing the Gap programme takes a holistic approach to help close the education attainment gap between disadvantaged children and their peers, focusing on embedding family support in schools, enhancing teacher training, and strengthening community partnerships. Trustee Forward A new partnership with Richmond CVS Trustee Forward, led by Richmond CVS, builds on our Future Leaders programme. This grant invests in new trustees and aspiring Chairs to reduce barriers, increase diversity, and boost leadership confidence. Future Leaders Nurturing Future Leaders Future Leaders has been developed in consultation with RCVS and local partners to advance the career and personal development of senior managers within Richmond’s voluntary sector. Discover more about the programme. OneRichmond Strengthening charitable connections across Richmond Richmond Foundation has continued to support the creation of the OneRichmond initiative alongside Hampton Fund and City Bridge Foundation. Find out more about how OneRichmond is working to improve the lives and opportunities of disadvantaged and vulnerable people.