Search Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Our Impact Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Funding Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply About Us About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees Latest News Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Contact Contact Get in touch Contact details Contact Get in touch Contact details Education Catalyst and Third Sector Catalyst Overview Unlocking opportunities through education Our Education Catalyst and Third Sector Catalyst grants support adults to gain additional qualifications or specialised training to enhance their employment prospects. They are designed to help people who cannot afford to pay the full costs of courses of study or training. These grants support people who have not yet got a level 6 qualification (eg who do not have A levels, BTEC Level 3 and 4 or an undergraduate degree) Grants can be used towards course fees, equipment, childcare, travel expenses or other expenses related to the course. Education Catalyst grants are for adults who live in our benefit area postcodes of TW9, TW10, SW13, SW14 or are a London Borough of Richmond care-leaver. Third Sector Catalyst grants are for volunteers and employees at our funded partners. These are local voluntary and community sector (VCS) organisations and schools that have grant funding from Richmond Foundation. Grants can benefit both personal development and the organisation you work or volunteer for. Please refer to our Frequently Asked Questions for further help. How we assess your application To apply for an Education Catalyst or Third Sector Catalyst grant, the following criteria must be met: About you Applicants for Education Catalyst must be adults who live in our benefit area postcodes of TW9, TW10, SW13, SW14 or are a London Borough of Richmond care-leaver Applicants for Third Sector Catalyst must volunteer or work at one of our funded partners We prioritise applications from people facing additional barriers to education and employment, such as single parents, carers, and disabled people You must live in a low-income household, be unemployed or in low-income employment. You must demonstrate an inability to afford the full cost of the course or related expenses If you are an undergraduate let us know about any specific personal circumstances that make it challenging to take on part-time or holiday work. Grants support people who have not yet got a level 6 qualification (eg A levels, BTEC Level 3, 4, or a undergraduate degree) We do not offer grants for adults who already have a degree or for post-graduate study. An exception may be made for Third Sector Catalyst grant applicants where you are seeking to upskill to meet a specific sector need Applicants for Education Catalyst must be adults who live in our benefit area postcodes of TW9, TW10, SW13, SW14 or are a London Borough of Richmond care-leaver Applicants for Third Sector Catalyst must volunteer or work at one of our funded partners We prioritise applications from people facing additional barriers to education and employment, such as single parents, carers, and disabled people You must live in a low-income household, be unemployed or in low-income employment. You must demonstrate an inability to afford the full cost of the course or related expenses If you are an undergraduate let us know about any specific personal circumstances that make it challenging to take on part-time or holiday work. Grants support people who have not yet got a level 6 qualification (eg A levels, BTEC Level 3, 4, or a undergraduate degree) We do not offer grants for adults who already have a degree or for post-graduate study. An exception may be made for Third Sector Catalyst grant applicants where you are seeking to upskill to meet a specific sector need Your proposed course or training It must be a recognised course or training that will improve your prospects There must be publicly available information showing the course details and it’s cost You must have researched options including government-funded training and can explain why you have chosen this particular course The course or training must provide value for money. We can’t reimburse you for payments you’ve already made towards course fees or other study costs You must have accessed available student finance in full. We also recommend exploring other financial resources such as bursaries and university hardship funds We want to understand how you will make sure that you have everything in place so that you can complete the course, for example childcare, equipment needed etc. It must be a recognised course or training that will improve your prospects There must be publicly available information showing the course details and it’s cost You must have researched options including government-funded training and can explain why you have chosen this particular course The course or training must provide value for money. We can’t reimburse you for payments you’ve already made towards course fees or other study costs You must have accessed available student finance in full. We also recommend exploring other financial resources such as bursaries and university hardship funds We want to understand how you will make sure that you have everything in place so that you can complete the course, for example childcare, equipment needed etc. What difference will the course or training make We want to understand the impact it will have on your future employment prospects and career plans Third Sector Catalyst applicants should explain the benefits that it will provide the funded partner that you work or volunteer for We want to understand the impact it will have on your future employment prospects and career plans Third Sector Catalyst applicants should explain the benefits that it will provide the funded partner that you work or volunteer for When to Apply Our Grants Committee meets quarterly in March, June, September, and December to review applications. Please make sure to submit your application by the deadline provided. We’ll notify you of the outcome within five working days after the Grants Committee meeting. Application Deadline 13 August 2025 29 October 2025 28 January 2026 24 April 2026 13 August 2025 29 October 2025 28 January 2026 24 April 2026 Grants Committee meeting 24 September 2025 10 December 2025 11 March 2026 3 June 2026 24 September 2025 10 December 2025 11 March 2026 3 June 2026 Decision Feedback by 1 October 2025 17 December 2025 18 March 2026 10 June 2026 1 October 2025 17 December 2025 18 March 2026 10 June 2026 Apply Online application process for an Education or Third Sector Catalyst grant. To submit an Education Catalyst or Third Sector Catalyst Grant application, you can compete our user-friendly online form. Make sure to submit your application by the deadline dates above to ensure that your request is considered at our next Grants Committee meeting.