Search Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Our Impact Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Funding Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply About Us About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees Latest News Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Contact Contact Get in touch Contact details Contact Get in touch Contact details Trustee Forward: Applications are now open Participants Invited – apply by 21 July 2025 Applications are now open for new trustees and aspiring Chairs of Richmond-based voluntary or community sector organisations to join Trustee Forward’s free support programme. Trustee Forward is being led by Richmond CVS in partnership with Richmond Foundation. What the free programme offers There are three core components across the programme which will mostly be delivered remotely: Additional targeted training – there will be up to six sessions of targeted training for participants, with topics determined according to participant priorities and feedback. At least one will specifically target aspiring Chairs. Mentorship scheme -participants will be matched with experienced trustees who have volunteered to be mentors. Volunteer Mentors will provide up to six one-to-one mentoring sessions to help build soft skills and confidence. Peer support opportunities – participants will be provided with peer support opportunities to connect and support each other. The aim is to have at least three sessions, designed in consultation with programme participants. Participants from all backgrounds are welcomed. We particularly encourage applications from people whose backgrounds are currently underrepresented on Boards or who have faced extra barriers to trusteeship. This may include young people, women, people of colour, disabled people, people from a working-class backgrounds, people who identify as LGBTQ+, people with caring responsibilities, or people with lived experience of the causes their charity supports. These are possible examples and not an exhaustive list. Applicants will require consent to join the programme from their Chair and, if selected, will be invited to an informal interview. Please read full details of eligibility and the process in the Application Pack here . We are committed to equal opportunities and want our processes to be fair and inclusive for all. Please get in touch if you require any reasonable adjustments as part of our application process and we will try our best to support you. Any questions or accessibility requests can be emailed to [email protected] . The closing date for participant applications is Monday 21 July 2025. Click here for the online Trustee Forward Participant Application Form. Visit our Trustee Forward page to learn more. There are no more posts available.