Search Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Our Impact Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Funding Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply About Us About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees Latest News Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Contact Contact Get in touch Contact details Contact Get in touch Contact details Our Funding Introduction We support individuals and organisations in the London Borough of Richmond on Thames Our grants are available to those supporting, living or working in the postcodes of our benefit area: TW9, TW10, SW13, and SW14. What we fund Our priorities shape the award of our grants with guidance from trained support workers to access benefits, grants and other support services for issues such as debt, homelessness, bereavement, food security, and special educational needs. for better outcomes for disadvantaged children and young people, and for low-income adults to reduce inequalities and encourage good mental and physical health for everyone. to reduce isolation and loneliness by providing inclusive community spaces and activities. with guidance from trained support workers to access benefits, grants and other support services for issues such as debt, homelessness, bereavement, food security, and special educational needs. for better outcomes for disadvantaged children and young people, and for low-income adults to reduce inequalities and encourage good mental and physical health for everyone. to reduce isolation and loneliness by providing inclusive community spaces and activities. What we do not fund For individuals Applications that do not support people living in our benefit area postcodes: TW9, TW10, SW13, and SW14 Education Catalyst grants related to post-graduate studies or for additional degrees. Education Catalyst Grants for costs relating to starting up your own business or for self-employment. We do not fund direct applications for Young Catalyst grants. All Young Catalyst support funding is given directly to schools in our benefit area. We do not provide any retrospective funding. Applications that do not support people living in our benefit area postcodes: TW9, TW10, SW13, and SW14 Education Catalyst grants related to post-graduate studies or for additional degrees. Education Catalyst Grants for costs relating to starting up your own business or for self-employment. We do not fund direct applications for Young Catalyst grants. All Young Catalyst support funding is given directly to schools in our benefit area. We do not provide any retrospective funding. For organisations Applications not relevant to our grant priorities Applications that do not support people living in our benefit area postcodes: TW9, TW10, SW13, and SW14 Anything that is the primary responsibility of a statutory body O rganisations that are not registered charities, community interest companies, schools or other properly constituted not for profit organisations Medical research, animal welfare, and projects of a political nature Major capital appeals Any activities that promote the practice of religion or specific belief systems (including the lack of belief) Improvements to buildings mainly used for worship or other religious activities Retrospective funding General charitable appeals Applications not relevant to our grant priorities Applications that do not support people living in our benefit area postcodes: TW9, TW10, SW13, and SW14 Anything that is the primary responsibility of a statutory body O rganisations that are not registered charities, community interest companies, schools or other properly constituted not for profit organisations Medical research, animal welfare, and projects of a political nature Major capital appeals Any activities that promote the practice of religion or specific belief systems (including the lack of belief) Improvements to buildings mainly used for worship or other religious activities Retrospective funding General charitable appeals Grant types We offer Catalyst G rants for living expenses and other activities that improve wellbeing through local Catalyst P artners, Education Catalyst G rants for learning and career development, and Young Catalyst grants to enhance the school lives of disadvantaged children. We provide funding to improve access to support and advice, reduce inequalities in education, improve health outcomes and enhance community cohesion. Find out more about the work that we are co-developing with local partners and how we are supporting the voluntary and community sector. We offer Catalyst G rants for living expenses and other activities that improve wellbeing through local Catalyst P artners, Education Catalyst G rants for learning and career development, and Young Catalyst grants to enhance the school lives of disadvantaged children. We provide funding to improve access to support and advice, reduce inequalities in education, improve health outcomes and enhance community cohesion. Find out more about the work that we are co-developing with local partners and how we are supporting the voluntary and community sector. Who we fund We share our grant award data with 360Giving 360Giving helps organisations share open, standardised grants data and supports its use to enhance charitable giving. Our Annual Report also includes a comprehensive summary of our grant funding.