Search Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Our Impact Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Funding Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply About Us About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees Latest News Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Contact Contact Get in touch Contact details Contact Get in touch Contact details Ensuring everyone in Richmond has opportunities to build healthy and fulfilling lives What We Do Empowering Richmond We are an independent charitable foundation that helps people in the London Borough of Richmond to build healthy and fulfilling lives. Our funding and support empowers people with opportunities and resources to unlock their full potential. How we can help Impactful and innovative grant funding Our funding provides essential support to individuals and organisations in ways that truly make a difference. We enable lasting change in our community by working closely with local partners and delivering impactful grant funding. “Our Core grant has enabled us to have more strategic oversight as it provides stability for us, which creates space for us to look at gaps in provision, particularly around vulnerable and isolated residents. The grant also helps us to attract other sources of funding as we can demonstrate that we have some diversity in our funding base.” Citizen's Advice Richmond received a Core grant of £56,100 in 2023/24 “Our Core grant has enabled us to have more strategic oversight as it provides stability for us, which creates space for us to look at gaps in provision, particularly around vulnerable and isolated residents. The grant also helps us to attract other sources of funding as we can demonstrate that we have some diversity in our funding base.” Citizen's Advice Richmond received a Core grant of £56,100 in 2023/24 “Richmond Foundation are a thoughtful and collaborative funder, and it is great working with them to support a strong voluntary sector in Richmond upon Thames.” Richmond CVS “Richmond Foundation are a thoughtful and collaborative funder, and it is great working with them to support a strong voluntary sector in Richmond upon Thames.” Richmond CVS “ It got me out of a huge hole, my grant helped me pay those bills and set me up to get me to stay afloat. It allowed me to catch up with payments and now I budget more which I didn’t do before ” Crisis Grant recipient, Riverbank Trust Grant Priority: Accessing support and advice “ It got me out of a huge hole, my grant helped me pay those bills and set me up to get me to stay afloat. It allowed me to catch up with payments and now I budget more which I didn’t do before ” Crisis Grant recipient, Riverbank Trust Grant Priority: Accessing support and advice FEATURED PUBLICATION Learning Lab: Spotlight on Future Leaders Every project shows what works. Every partnership shapes what matters. Every process reveals where we can improve. Learning Lab is our new series where we open the doors to our organisational practice, from partnership projects to internal processes, and share the insights that shape how we work and grow. Latest news from the Foundation October Partner Events We’re delighted to showcase a variety of events submitted by our partner organisations this month. Promoting Partner Events We’re excited to support and share events from across our network of partners. Find out more about how our event submissions work. September Partner Events We’re delighted to showcase a variety of events submitted by our partner organisations this month. Trustee Forward: Applications are now open Applications are now open for new trustees and aspiring Chairs of Richmond-based voluntary or community sector organisations. We’ve joined the Open and Trusting community We’ve joined the Open and Trusting community of funders led by the Institute For Voluntary Action Research. £1m to Narrow the Attainment Gap Over the next five years, Richmond Foundation has committed £1million in grant funding to help narrow the attainment gap between disadvantaged children from low-income families and their peers. Future Challengers: Future Leaders Part Two of our Future Challengers series: Our Future Leaders share their insights into the positive trends shaping the sector and the leaders who have inspired their journey. Future Challengers: Inspiring Leaders Part Two of our Future Challengers series: Our Future Leaders share their insights into the positive trends shaping the sector and the leaders who have inspired their journey. Our New Identity This rebrand marks a pivotal milestone in our journey. Our refreshed identity is built on our core values and reinforces our commitment to collaboration, innovation, and amplifying impact. Future Challengers: Effective Leadership Explore the challenges shaping the future of the voluntary and community sector. In this series, our Future Leaders share insights on the obstacles they face and their vision of effective leadership in a changing world. Future Leaders 2024 Launch Event We launched our innovative career development initiative designed for senior managers and deputy CEOs of our funded partners. The launch brought leaders together for the first time to celebrate and kick off the programme! Navigating Change: Phil on reshaping strategies CEO Phil Barron joined a panel discussion at London Funders’ Festival of Learning to talk about our charity’s ambitious strategic review and transformation. Mailing List Get the latest on our activities, events, and community news by joining our mailing list.