Search Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Our Impact Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Funding Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply About Us About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees Latest News Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Contact Contact Get in touch Contact details Contact Get in touch Contact details News Featured We've committed £1m to narrow the attainment gap News October Partner Events We’re delighted to showcase a variety of events submitted by our partner organisations this month. Promoting Partner Events We’re excited to support and share events from across our network of partners. Find out more about how our event submissions work. September Partner Events We’re delighted to showcase a variety of events submitted by our partner organisations this month. Trustee Forward: Applications are now open Applications are now open for new trustees and aspiring Chairs of Richmond-based voluntary or community sector organisations. We’ve joined the Open and Trusting community We’ve joined the Open and Trusting community of funders led by the Institute For Voluntary Action Research. £1m to Narrow the Attainment Gap Over the next five years, Richmond Foundation has committed £1million in grant funding to help narrow the attainment gap between disadvantaged children from low-income families and their peers. Future Challengers: Future Leaders Part Two of our Future Challengers series: Our Future Leaders share their insights into the positive trends shaping the sector and the leaders who have inspired their journey. Future Challengers: Inspiring Leaders Part Two of our Future Challengers series: Our Future Leaders share their insights into the positive trends shaping the sector and the leaders who have inspired their journey. Our New Identity This rebrand marks a pivotal milestone in our journey. Our refreshed identity is built on our core values and reinforces our commitment to collaboration, innovation, and amplifying impact. Future Challengers: Effective Leadership Explore the challenges shaping the future of the voluntary and community sector. In this series, our Future Leaders share insights on the obstacles they face and their vision of effective leadership in a changing world. Future Leaders 2024 Launch Event We launched our innovative career development initiative designed for senior managers and deputy CEOs of our funded partners. The launch brought leaders together for the first time to celebrate and kick off the programme! Navigating Change: Phil on reshaping strategies CEO Phil Barron joined a panel discussion at London Funders’ Festival of Learning to talk about our charity’s ambitious strategic review and transformation. All 2024 2023 2022 2021 Annual Report Our 2024 Annual Report Publications We’re proud to share our 2024 Annual Report, unveiling our new name and reaffirming our commitments as Richmond Foundation. This report celebrates our funded projects, highlights our collective achievements with partners, and shares our vision for the future. Learning Lab: Spotlight on Future Leaders Learning Lab is our new series where we open the doors to our organisational practice, from partnership projects to internal processes, and share the insights that shape how we work and grow. Our 2024 Annual Report We’re proud to share our 2024 Annual Report, unveiling our new name and reaffirming our commitments as Richmond Foundation. Our 2023 Annual Report We celebrate a transformational year for Richmond Foundation. Read for reflections on our strategic review, our collective achievements with our partners, and our vision for the future. All 2024 2023 2022 2021 Mailing List Stay in the loop with our latest activities, upcoming events and community updates by joining our mailing list.