Search Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Our Impact Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Funding Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply About Us About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees Latest News Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Contact Contact Get in touch Contact details Contact Get in touch Contact details Catalyst Grants Flexible grants designed to unlock opportunities Catalyst Grants are grants to individuals to fund activities and resources that unlock opportunities, provide critical support, and enhance wellbeing. They are designed to improve the quality of life and overall wellbeing of individuals and families with low-incomes who demonstrate a need for support and live in the Richmond Foundation area of benefit – TW9, TW10, SW13 and SW14. Our Catalyst Partners are local support organisations who are experts in local need. They have flexibility in the value and use of a Catalyst Grant allowing them to provide tailored support based on what will have the biggest impact on an individual’s circumstances. There is a focus on creating sustainable, long-term change. If you are an individual looking to apply for a Catalyst Grant, you will need to contact a Catalyst Partner, we do not accept applications. Please refer to our Frequently Asked Questions for further help. Catalyst Partners Achieving for Children (AfC) If you are a family currently receiving support from social care services, please reach out to your dedicated contact, such as your social worker or personal advisor. They may be able to connect you within AfC to apply for a Crisis Grant. If you are a family currently receiving support from social care services, please reach out to your dedicated contact, such as your social worker or personal advisor. They may be able to connect you within AfC to apply for a Crisis Grant. Age UK Richmond For older people. Email [email protected] or call 020 8878 3625 For older people. Email [email protected] or call 020 8878 3625 Citizens Advice Richmond For anyone who lives or works in the Borough of Richmond. Contact online or by freephone 080 8278 7873 For anyone who lives or works in the Borough of Richmond. Contact online or by freephone 080 8278 7873 Look Ahead For social care and housing support you can email Look Ahead on [email protected] or call them on 0333 010 4600 . For social care and housing support you can email Look Ahead on [email protected] or call them on 0333 010 4600 . Richmond AID For people with long term health conditions or disabilities, and carers. Email [email protected] or call 020 3393 7011 For people with long term health conditions or disabilities, and carers. Email [email protected] or call 020 3393 7011 Richmond Housing Partnership For RHP tenants facing financial hardship please contact the Financial Inclusion team on 0800 032 2433 . For RHP tenants facing financial hardship please contact the Financial Inclusion team on 0800 032 2433 . Riverbank Trust For vulnerable single mothers, email [email protected] . For vulnerable single mothers, email [email protected] . RUILS For Disabled people and people with long term health and mental health conditions and parents of children and young people with SEND. Contact https://ruils.co.uk/catalyst-grant/ For Disabled people and people with long term health and mental health conditions and parents of children and young people with SEND. Contact https://ruils.co.uk/catalyst-grant/ Vineyard Community Centre and Richmond Foodbank For families and individuals facing complex crises including homelessness/housing instability, food poverty, health breakdown and financial hardship. Contact [email protected] or phone 020 8439 9735 For families and individuals facing complex crises including homelessness/housing instability, food poverty, health breakdown and financial hardship. Contact [email protected] or phone 020 8439 9735