Search Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Not sure where to find something? Search all of our content... Our Impact Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Impact Support and Advice Inequalities in Education Health Outcomes Community Cohesion Voluntary and Community Sector Our Funding Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply Our Funding What we fund Individuals Organisations Partnerships Who we fund Eligibility Quiz Apply About Us About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees About Us Our vision Our history Our team Our trustees Latest News Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Latest News Latest news / blog Latest publications Contact Contact Get in touch Contact details Contact Get in touch Contact details Individuals Overview We are dedicated to supporting individuals and families in need through a variety of targeted grants. Our funding initiatives unlock opportunities, provide critical support, and enhance the wellbeing and success of our community. Catalyst Grants Flexible grants designed to unlock opportunities We work with local partners who award grants on our behalf to provide critical support and enhance well-being for individuals with low-incomes. Education Catalyst and Third Sector Catalyst Grants Unlocking opportunities through education Our Education Catalyst and Third Sector Catalyst grants support adults seeking additional qualifications or training to enhance their employment prospects. Young Catalyst Grants Enriching education for every child We provide funding to local schools in our benefit area to improve the school lives of disadvantaged children. Awarded at the discretion of the Headteacher, these grants can subsidise activities such as breakfast clubs, extra-curricular activities, school outings, residential trips, access to therapies, and contribute towards uniform costs. We want to ensure that every child can participate fully in school life, regardless of their financial situation. By helping to remove these barriers, we aim to support the overall well-being and academic success of all students. FAQ Catalyst What are Catalyst Grants? Catalyst Grants are grants to individuals to fund activities and resources that unlock opportunities, provide critical support and enhance well-being. They are designed to improve the quality of life and overall wellbeing of individuals and families with low-incomes who demonstrate a need for support and live in the Richmond Foundation area of benefit – TW9, TW10, SW13 and SW14. It operates on a model of trust and partnership, empowering trusted local support organisations, our Catalyst Partners, to make decisions on how grants are awarded to individuals in need of support. How do I apply for a Catalyst Grant? Applications for Catalyst Grants are made through our Catalyst P artners. If you are in need, please reach out to one of our trusted Catalyst P artners. They will assist you in determining eligibility an d providing you with support and advice. Who are our Catalyst Partners? We have nine Catalyst Partners who you can contact for support and who distribute our Catalyst Grants . For further information, head over to our Catalyst Grants page . Who is eligible for a Catalyst Grant? Catalyst Grant recipients must be a resident of TW9, TW10, SW13, or SW14, or a Richmond care leaver. Applicants should not be able to afford the requested cost or activity and must apply directly to a Catalyst Partner. What are Catalyst Grants? Catalyst Grants are grants to individuals to fund activities and resources that unlock opportunities, provide critical support and enhance well-being. They are designed to improve the quality of life and overall wellbeing of individuals and families with low-incomes who demonstrate a need for support and live in the Richmond Foundation area of benefit – TW9, TW10, SW13 and SW14. It operates on a model of trust and partnership, empowering trusted local support organisations, our Catalyst Partners, to make decisions on how grants are awarded to individuals in need of support. How do I apply for a Catalyst Grant? Applications for Catalyst Grants are made through our Catalyst P artners. If you are in need, please reach out to one of our trusted Catalyst P artners. They will assist you in determining eligibility an d providing you with support and advice. Who are our Catalyst Partners? We have nine Catalyst Partners who you can contact for support and who distribute our Catalyst Grants . For further information, head over to our Catalyst Grants page . Who is eligible for a Catalyst Grant? Catalyst Grant recipients must be a resident of TW9, TW10, SW13, or SW14, or a Richmond care leaver. Applicants should not be able to afford the requested cost or activity and must apply directly to a Catalyst Partner. Education Catalyst and Third Sector Catalyst Can I access a Word version of the Application Form? Our Catalyst Education and Third Sector Catalyst Application Guidance is available in Word format and includes all Application Form questions. If you would like to request any information from us in a more accessible format please get in touch by email [email protected] or by phone 020 8948 5701. My application form won’t save, what can I do? Make sure that you have responded to any error message. The form will also not save if you have entered any text where it should only include numbers. When is the deadline for an application? We have quarterly application deadlines in August, October, January and April. See When to Apply . You will hear whether your application has been successful within seven weeks of the grant deadline. If my application is successful, when and how will I receive my grant? If approved your grant will usually be available within 10 working days from your return of our Terms and Conditions. In most cases, Richmond Foundation pays course fees directly to your training provider by BACS. What is the application success rate? In the 12-months from July 2024, 57% of applications were awarded. I’ve already paid a deposit. Can I apply for a grant to reimburse what I’ve paid? We do not offer retrospective funding. We can’t reimburse you for payments you’ve already made towards course fees or other study costs . Is there a maximum length of course that you will support? We rarely approve a grant for a course or training that takes more than one year. Please see information below regarding expenses while studying for a degree. Who can apply for an Education Catalyst grant? We accept applications from eligible individuals who live in our benefit area post-codes of TW9, TW10, SW13, SW14 or are a London Borough of Richmond care-leaver. How much Education Catalyst grant can I apply for towards my expenses while studying for a degree? We expect undergraduates to access and fully utilise student finance options, including coverage for fees, maintenance, and any additional support. Comprehensive information about these options can be found here . We also recommend exploring other financial resources such as bursaries and university hardship funds. Your university’s support services can provide valuable guidance on these opportunities. If you find yourself facing a financial shortfall despite these efforts, and you have specific personal circumstances that make it challenging to take on part-time or holiday work, you may be eligible to apply for an education grant of up to £3,000 this year. You can make one application each year. Please note that the maximum amount available for undergraduate grants may vary from year to year and may decrease. Can I apply for an Education Catalyst grant towards post-graduate study or a second degree? We do not offer grants for post-graduate studies or additional degrees. I volunteer for a charity in Richmond borough. Can I apply for a Third Sector Catalyst grant? Third Sector Catalyst grants are available for volunteers and employees at our funded partners. The grant is designed for adults who live in a low-income household, are unemployed or in low-income employment. You do not need to live in our benefit area post-codes. The training should benefit both the staff and the school or voluntary sector organisation. Grants support individuals from low-education backgrounds who have not yet obtained a degree. We do not normally offer grants for post-graduate studies or additional degrees. However, an exception may be made for those who are seeking to upskill to meet a specific sector need. If this applies to you, please reach out to our Grants team to discuss your situation in more detail. When applying for a Third Sector Catalyst grant does the organisation I work/volunteer for need to part fund the course? This is not a requirement, but it is very helpful if there is a contribution. It is useful for you to include information in your supporting statement about the staff training that your organisation provides and how that can contribute to your proposed course costs. Can I access a Word version of the Application Form? Our Catalyst Education and Third Sector Catalyst Application Guidance is available in Word format and includes all Application Form questions. If you would like to request any information from us in a more accessible format please get in touch by email [email protected] or by phone 020 8948 5701. My application form won’t save, what can I do? Make sure that you have responded to any error message. The form will also not save if you have entered any text where it should only include numbers. When is the deadline for an application? We have quarterly application deadlines in August, October, January and April. See When to Apply . You will hear whether your application has been successful within seven weeks of the grant deadline. If my application is successful, when and how will I receive my grant? If approved your grant will usually be available within 10 working days from your return of our Terms and Conditions. In most cases, Richmond Foundation pays course fees directly to your training provider by BACS. What is the application success rate? In the 12-months from July 2024, 57% of applications were awarded. I’ve already paid a deposit. Can I apply for a grant to reimburse what I’ve paid? We do not offer retrospective funding. We can’t reimburse you for payments you’ve already made towards course fees or other study costs . Is there a maximum length of course that you will support? We rarely approve a grant for a course or training that takes more than one year. Please see information below regarding expenses while studying for a degree. Who can apply for an Education Catalyst grant? We accept applications from eligible individuals who live in our benefit area post-codes of TW9, TW10, SW13, SW14 or are a London Borough of Richmond care-leaver. How much Education Catalyst grant can I apply for towards my expenses while studying for a degree? We expect undergraduates to access and fully utilise student finance options, including coverage for fees, maintenance, and any additional support. Comprehensive information about these options can be found here . We also recommend exploring other financial resources such as bursaries and university hardship funds. Your university’s support services can provide valuable guidance on these opportunities. If you find yourself facing a financial shortfall despite these efforts, and you have specific personal circumstances that make it challenging to take on part-time or holiday work, you may be eligible to apply for an education grant of up to £3,000 this year. You can make one application each year. Please note that the maximum amount available for undergraduate grants may vary from year to year and may decrease. Can I apply for an Education Catalyst grant towards post-graduate study or a second degree? We do not offer grants for post-graduate studies or additional degrees. I volunteer for a charity in Richmond borough. Can I apply for a Third Sector Catalyst grant? Third Sector Catalyst grants are available for volunteers and employees at our funded partners. The grant is designed for adults who live in a low-income household, are unemployed or in low-income employment. You do not need to live in our benefit area post-codes. The training should benefit both the staff and the school or voluntary sector organisation. Grants support individuals from low-education backgrounds who have not yet obtained a degree. We do not normally offer grants for post-graduate studies or additional degrees. However, an exception may be made for those who are seeking to upskill to meet a specific sector need. If this applies to you, please reach out to our Grants team to discuss your situation in more detail. When applying for a Third Sector Catalyst grant does the organisation I work/volunteer for need to part fund the course? This is not a requirement, but it is very helpful if there is a contribution. It is useful for you to include information in your supporting statement about the staff training that your organisation provides and how that can contribute to your proposed course costs. Young Catalyst What are Young Catalyst grants? We provide Young Catalyst grants each year to every school in our benefit area: TW9, TW10, SW13, and SW14. Typically, these grants are used to subsidise residential journeys and class visits, for places at breakfast/after school/holiday clubs or other activities, towards uniform costs, and various therapies. We don’t decide how this is used; please direct any queries to your Headteacher. Do you provide direct funding to children needing a Young Catalyst grant? We do not accept direct applications for Young Catalyst grants from individuals. Instead, we distribute our funding directly to local schools. This allows the Headteacher to use their discretion in allocating support to disadvantaged students who need it most. How can I find out if my child is eligible for this funding? If you believe your child may be eligible for a Young Catalyst grant, please contact your child’s school. The headteacher will be able to provide information on how the grants are distributed and whether your child qualifies for assistance. What are Young Catalyst grants? We provide Young Catalyst grants each year to every school in our benefit area: TW9, TW10, SW13, and SW14. Typically, these grants are used to subsidise residential journeys and class visits, for places at breakfast/after school/holiday clubs or other activities, towards uniform costs, and various therapies. We don’t decide how this is used; please direct any queries to your Headteacher. Do you provide direct funding to children needing a Young Catalyst grant? We do not accept direct applications for Young Catalyst grants from individuals. Instead, we distribute our funding directly to local schools. This allows the Headteacher to use their discretion in allocating support to disadvantaged students who need it most. How can I find out if my child is eligible for this funding? If you believe your child may be eligible for a Young Catalyst grant, please contact your child’s school. The headteacher will be able to provide information on how the grants are distributed and whether your child qualifies for assistance.