Manage your grant If your grant application is approved, we will draw up a grant agreement for you to sign which will include the planned start and end date for our funding. After you sign this, we’ll assign you a grant manager who’ll be your main contact at LEF. They’ll contact you to set up an introductory call. Keeping in touch with LEF We have two touchpoints with you during the year after your introductory call. Interim calls: These aim to find out how your grant is going, any additional help we might offer, and any learning, particularly around our priority learning areas: How is the law contributing to movements for social justice? How are legal organisations working with communities to build social justice? Find out more about our priority learning topics These calls will often be online but we aim to visit you in-person once or twice too, depending on the length of your grant. Annual report: A light touch report with questions about how your work is going and the context you are working in, as well as any major changes to the budget or scope of the agreed work. We also give you the option to attach an existing report that includes relevant information, or to discuss your work in a phone call. We may follow up with a phone call to discuss the learning from your grant in more detail. Outside these reporting points, we ask that you let your grant manager know about any major changes to the work or the organisation – for example, changes to key staff members, financial difficulties and/​or any serious incidents reported to the Charity Commission. Receiving your grant payment Grant payments are normally made annually in advance of the work starting. Grant payments are normally made annually in advance of the work starting. The first payment is usually made once the grant agreement has been signed. The first payment is usually made once the grant agreement has been signed. After that, the payment is released each year once we have received your annual report and/​or had an update meeting. After that, the payment is released each year once we have received your annual report and/​or had an update meeting. Development support In addition to our grant funding, we are committed to providing development support (sometimes called wraparound support or funder plus). We recognise that the work we fund – and the context you work in – is challenging and we want to make sure you have access to the support you need to do this well. We have some support in place, for example for wellbeing and legal strategy. We will also work with our new grant partners to develop a range of tailored provision which may include helping you with organisational development, navigating transitions or with specific learning or influencing activities. Using our logo You can download our logo to use on your website or printed materials: LEF logo blue LEF logo white LEF logo blue with strapline LEF logo white with strapline For alternative formats, please contact us . Guidelines for using our logo Contact us Privacy policy Web accessibility statement Linkedin © 2025 The Legal Education Foundation, 15 Alfred Place, London WC1E 7EB Registered charity 271297 (England/Wales) Website: William Joseph