Funding We want to create a society where everyone receives the help they need; where our rights are respected and grown; and where we can all actively shape the systems that affect our lives. We believe that the law is an essential tool to help realise these social justice goals. Our funding aims to create new connections between the law and communities facing injustice. Who we fund We fund small and medium-sized organisations, closely connected to their communities, who are using – or would like to use – the law to drive wider change and greater equity. All of our grants are published by the independent charity 360 Giving to ensure transparency and to help you make a more informed decision about your application. Find out more about the grants we’ve made What we fund We want to advance human rights and equalities across the UK, and support work which has impact on a regional, national or UK-wide level. We believe that human rights and equalities face significant risk and so welcome applications that seek to address these by working collaboratively in complex landscapes. We want to build on work we have already funded, including on: Overarching human rights frameworks Disability justice Employment rights Housing rights Racial justice Violence against women and girls. However, we would welcome applications that centre other underfunded issues, such as LGBTQ+ rights and women’s rights, especially as the external context is shifting so rapidly. While we cannot support applications focused exclusively on criminal law, we do fund work which focuses on discrimination in the criminal legal system. We fund migrants’ rights work on issues such as employment and housing. However, we channel our support for improving access to justice for people in the immigration system through our contribution to Justice Together, a funder collaboration which we host. Since its creation in 2020, we have significantly increased our funding in this area. Our funds Find out which of our funds is right for you Contact us Privacy policy Web accessibility statement Linkedin © 2025 The Legal Education Foundation, 15 Alfred Place, London WC1E 7EB Registered charity 271297 (England/Wales) Website: William Joseph