Your fellowship training programme ​ “ I never would have had the opportunity to qualify as a lawyer without the Justice First Fellowship.” — JFF Fellow, 2020 cohort Our training and development programme has been designed to ensure that you gain the legal and professional skills to help you progress in your career using the law to improve lives. There are three mandatory parts to our programme. 1. Legal training LEF covers the cost of any mandatory legal training you need to undertake to qualify, as follows: England & Wales SQE 2 preparatory course, and the SQE 2 examination from BARBRI as well as the Professional Skills Course (PSC) [for those qualifying under the LPC route] with BPP. Scotland TCPD minimum 60 hours of professional and ethics training for trainee solicitors. Northern Ireland IPLS solicitor course vocational training programme from Queen’s University Belfast. 2. Wider skills training We want to make sure that you are given the time to develop the wider skills needed to have a successful career in social justice law. This part of the training comprises: Project management Covering project planning, collaboration and evaluation. Career development Covering community lawyering, career pathways and CV and interview skills Funding and fundraising Introducing you to fundraising approaches and sources, including working with the Legal Aid Agency. 3. Wellbeing training Claiming Space has worked with our fellows since 2019 to deliver a comprehensive programme of training and support for lawyers working on emotionally challenging cases. This support is offered in monthly one-hour group sessions. Self-care is a huge issue for lawyers working in the social justice sector and we want to make sure that you are equipped with the right resources and tools to manage and protect your mental wellbeing. Our ultimate goal is for those seeking justice to be represented by lawyers who feel supported to cope with stress, vicarious trauma and burnout. This training programme is supplemented by a range of other free and discounted skills and professional development opportunities. Find our more about our wider support offer Contact us Privacy policy Web accessibility statement Linkedin © 2025 The Legal Education Foundation, 15 Alfred Place, London WC1E 7EB Registered charity 271297 (England/Wales) Website: William Joseph