Christmas Challenge 2024 Campaign Impact This winter, 113 of our partners raised an incredible £6,413,569—a 35% increase from last year—with 109 unlocking some or all of our matched funding. This includes Bloomsbury Football Foundation, who raised an outstanding £496,460! 73 of our charity partners not only met but exceeded their campaign targets!. This includes our Synergy partner, AllChild, who raised an incredible 166% of their target, and within our Grassroots charities, St Mary’s Ukrainian School, who exceeded their target by 78%—an incredible result for their first campaign. What does this mean, and where will this £6.4 million go? These funds will help deliver vital programmes and services to over 190,000 children living in poverty across London over the next 12 months. This brings us one step closer to breaking the cycle of poverty and ensuring every child in London is happy, healthy, resilient, and safe. It’s been truly inspiring to see our charity network come together to raise these funds over the past week. By doubling the impact as their Champion Funder, at The Childhood Trust, we’re proud to see our partners applying insights from our Get Campaign Ready event, as well as our research and assets, to maximise their impact. None of this would be possible without the support of our wider community, so thank you for being a crucial part of this success! To our charity partners, we hope you're taking the time to celebrate your incredible achievements too. Our Support If that hasn't enticed you enough to join our charity network, here's an insight into what our charities gain access to when they participate in our campaign: Workshops on how to run a successful fundraising campaign, including topics such as how to formulate your campaign messaging and how to use social media effectively. Our Get Campaign Ready Event is known as a key highlight for our charity partners! One-to-one support on any aspect of the campaign Connections with other charities working with children and young people across London Raised profile and visibility through broader campaigns, events and other activities to raise awareness of the issues around child poverty and drive traffic to the charities This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Read More