Apply For Funding Christmas Challenge 2025 The Big Give’s Christmas Challenge is the UK’s largest collaborative fundraising campaign, and The Childhood Trust is proud to return as a Champion Funder. Running from 2nd - 9th December 2025 , the Challenge gives London-based charities supporting children in poverty the chance to double their donations through matched funding. In 2024, we helped raise £6 million for 113 charities , benefiting over 185,000 children across London, and we hope this year we will see a similar result for our growing charity partner network. For key dates, click here . Or keep reading to learn how the match-funding model works and check your eligibility. What We Fund We are looking for charities that have an existing supporter base and an appetite to work with us to engage with the general public and existing donors. In order to be successful in our campaigns, it is helpful for charities to have an active trustee board or major donors who are prepared to make donation pledges to kickstart the fundraising for the project. The Childhood Trust has four priority impact focus areas for children: Physical Health Mental Wellbeing Home & Community Environment Learning & Work Readiness. Before applying, please read our Grant Making Polic y to ensure you match our eligibility requirements. To be eligible for funding, all partners must: be registered with the Charity Commission have one year of filed annual accounts be able to demonstrate that they are a going concern have strong financial processes and be legally compliant have a robust governance structure have solid safeguarding processes Please note that charities cannot apply for a TCT grant which exceeds 10% of their last annual income The minimum requirements for any project to receive funding are: Children (0-18 year olds) will be the primary beneficiaries of the funding; Children living in London will be the primary beneficiaries; Children experiencing poverty (demonstrated by poverty measures such as IDACI, Free school meals, Pupil premium, low household income) will be the primary beneficiaries. Our charity partner must demonstrate outcomes against one of our four impact goals: Physical Health, Mental Wellbeing, Home & Community Environment and Learning & Work Readiness Our decision-making process begins with an initial review to ensure that applications meet the minimum criteria outlined in our Grant Making Policy. From there, we assess applications based on several key areas, including: Alignment with our mission and impact goals Potential for meaningful impact Compliance with financial and regulatory standards Beneficiary engagement and involvement While these areas guide our approach, we retain the flexibility to consider other factors that align with our overall mission. Unfortunately, we receive more applications than we are able to support. Please ensure you have met the minimum charity and project requirements to increase the likelihood of your application being successful. We use the Big Give's pledge model of funding because all online donations are doubled during the campaign. It’s a great way for charities to engage public donors to contribute, knowing their gift will go further. Why Apply In addition to offering matched funds, The Childhood Trust builds charities’ capacity to run successful fundraising campaigns with: Workshops on how to run a successful fundraising campaign, including topics such as how to formulate your campaign messaging and how to use social media effectively One-to-one support on any aspect of the campaign Connections with other charities working with children and young people across London Raised profile and visibility through broader campaigns, events and other activities to raise awareness of the issues around child poverty and drive traffic to the charities We also request our charity partners' participation in our other programmes, such as Transforming Spaces , Our Research and Advocacy Programme, or The London Child Poverty Summit . Questions? Please contact our Campaigns team. This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Read More