Make a donation Help children living in poverty access vital support 700,000 children in London are living in poverty. They're missing meals, living in cold, damp and overcrowded homes and feeling anxious about their future. Your donation can provide children with a warm and safe place to play, activities to inspire, mental health support, nutritious meals and more. There are four ways you can donate. Donate today and make a difference to a child's life in London. Make a donation online Donate online today to help us alleviate the impact of poverty for London’s children. We can't do this without your help. You can either give a one off donation, or setting up regular gifts which are vital for us to be able to plan ahead in our commitment to bring hope to vulnerable children across the capital. Donate directly into our bank To make a bank transfer, please email us so we can send you our banking details. Your bank will provide you with a receipt as proof of payment. Please email us stating the date that you transferred your donation. This will help us to keep track of your transfer and we can then let you know and thank you once we have received it. Send a donation by post If you’d like to send your money in by post, please send your cheque, made payable to The Childhood Trust, along with a covering letter with your name and address details. Our postal address is: The Childhood Trust Fifth Floor 83 Victoria Street London SW1H 0HW Payroll Giving or Give As You Earn Payroll Giving is an easy, tax-efficient way for you to give to The Childhood Trust straight from your salary – this means it will cost you less. Find out if your workplace has a scheme in place and, if not, you could ask them to set one up. Some employers also offer a ‘matched giving’ scheme where they contribute to a donation at no extra cost to you too. If you're an employer, you can give your employees the opportunity to support us by registering through an HMRC-approved Payroll Giving Agency (PGA) such as: Charities Aid Foundation (CAF), and Charities Trust or Charitable Giving. Support Children Across London This Christmas This Christmas, we’re working with our London partner network to provide essential items to children and young people who need them most. Your contribution — whether it’s toys, warm clothing, or other essentials — will bring comfort and joy this festive season. Accurate monitoring and evaluation ensures that the projects we fund are continually meeting the needs of disadvantaged children as effectively as possible. Our work focuses on creating measurable impact and improving outcomes for disadvantaged children in London through our three main delivery programmes. This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Read More