Philanthropy and Charitable Trusts Creating long lasting impact together We are incredibly grateful to philanthropists, trusts and foundations who support us through donations and multi-year grants. We rely entirely on voluntary income, so all funding goes towards our important work to alleviate the impact of poverty for children throughout London. Our funding needs Unrestricted funding enables us to deliver our strategic aims and increase the number of disadvantaged children we are able to support. We are also very happy to discuss funding of specific programmes or project areas, including our annual London Partner Network Programme and Transforming Spaces Programme. If you share our vision that all children should have a healthy, happy and safe childhood and be given opportunities to thrive, supporting The Childhood Trust guarantees that your funds will create a tangible and lasting impact. Why choose us? The Childhood Trust brings together donations from philanthropists and charitable trusts, as well as corporates and individuals, to tackle child poverty at scale. Our specialist knowledge and deep understanding of the issues facing London's most disadvantaged children and young people allow us to reach smaller, grassroot charities often excluded from applying to larger funders, or difficult for funders to find, due to a lack of profile, resource and fundraising expertise. Furthermore, our London Charity Partner Network funding model means that for every £1 you donate, £4 is generated for direct delivery of services. We pride ourselves on excellent relationship management, and will also ensure you receive: 12-month impact reporting and regular updates from our Head of Philanthropy Invitations to events throughout the year such as our London Child Poverty Summit Charity partner visits (dependent on funding level) Volunteering opportunities like our Transforming Spaces bedroom projects Get in touch We would be delighted to learn more about your personal interests or those of your grant-making organisation, and to discuss ways in which we could work together. Please contact Tara Macdowel, Head of Philanthropy, by clicking below to join our community of supporters. The Peter Cundill Foundation looks for catalytic, well-run charities that multiply our philanthropic dollars to generate the maximum possible impact. By providing fundraising and advocacy capacity to small but brilliant anti-poverty charities in London, The Childhood Trust really fits the bill. It helps those local charities get the money they need to drive real change while also keeping child poverty higher up the agenda. The Childhood Trust provides a lifeline to so many children and families. We share their ambition to reduce the impact of poverty on young people living in London, so I’m delighted to support the On the Breadline campaign of the Evening Standard and Independent in partnership with The Childhood Trust. Every child deserves the opportunity to grow up in a safe, healthy, and supportive environment and funding from our players will help The Childhood Trust alleviate the devastating impact poverty has across London. Accurate monitoring and evaluation ensures that the projects we fund are continually meeting the needs of disadvantaged children as effectively as possible. Our programmes and projects improve the life chances of disadvantaged children and grow the capacity and sustainability of children’s charities in our network. This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Read More