Champions for Children 2024 Our Impact Our Champions for Children 2024 matched-funding campaign ran from Tuesday 4th June to Tuesday 18th June 2023, and it was another record-breaking campaign! Thanks to our network's generosity and support, and the hard work of our charity delivery partners, together we’ve raised £5,006,400 in this year's Champions for Children Campaign. That's more than a 40% increase from last year! Over the next 12 months, these funds will support a wide range of programmes through our 84 charity partners across all 32 London boroughs, impacting the lives of 185,000 children living in poverty. Aligned with our Prepared for Life Impact Strategy, these projects will help children in London become better prepared for life. They will provide hot, nutritious meals to children, create safe play spaces, enhance resilience, and build children's confidence through a range of educational programmes and opportunities. Together, we are helping children experiencing poverty to thrive and be better equipped for their future. We can’t wait to witness the profound impact our charity partners will make which will be reported in July 2025. Thank you for being a part of this vital mission and congratulations again, to all our charity delivery partners! They are the true Champions for Children who are helping to break the cycle of poverty for children in London. Our Support If that hasn't enticed you enough to join our charity network, here's an insight into what our charities gain access to when they participate in our campaign: Workshops on how to run a successful fundraising campaign, including topics such as how to formulate your campaign messaging and how to use social media effectively. Our Get Campaign Ready Event is known as a key highlight for our charity partners! One-to-one support on any aspect of the campaign Connections with other charities working with children and young people across London Raised profile and visibility through broader campaigns, events and other activities to raise awareness of the issues around child poverty and drive traffic to the charities This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Read More