Fundraise for us Join the fight against child poverty Every child deserves a happy, secure, and fulfilling childhood. By fundraising for The Childhood Trust, you can help us support children and young people living in poverty across London. Your efforts will contribute to projects that provide essential services, education, and opportunities for children to thrive. Why fundraise for us? Over 700,000 children in London are growing up in poverty. We partner with grassroots charities to ensure funds reach those who need them most. Every penny you raise helps to provide food, shelter, mentorship, and a brighter future for children in need. Ways to get involved Host an Event: From bake sales to quiz nights, organise an event to rally support. Take on a Challenge: Run a marathon, climb a mountain, or take on a personal challenge to raise funds. Workplace Fundraising: Engage your colleagues with fun activities like dress-down days or charity auctions. Get Creative: Use your talents to fundraise—whether it’s painting, singing, or crafting! Thank you Every act of fundraising brings us closer to creating a city where every child can achieve their potential. Once you've completed your fundraising, don't forget to make your donation to help transform a child's life. I enjoyed running the London Marathon for your wonderful charity. So many people said to me what a great cause it was! I ran the LLHM for the Childhood Trust on Sunday in 2.08 and raised over £330! I am so incredibly proud of myself and to simultaneously have raised money for such an incredible charity that do invaluable work to support the children of London is something like no other! I ran the LLHM for the Childhood Trust on Sunday in 2.08 and raised over £330! I am so incredibly proud of myself and to simultaneously have raised money for such an incredible charity that do invaluable work to support the children of London is something like no other! Accurate monitoring and evaluation ensures that the projects we fund are continually meeting the needs of disadvantaged children as effectively as possible. The Childhood Trust is grateful for the incredible support from companies, trusts, foundations, and individual donors. Every donation made is invested directly into the projects we fund. Why not join our supporter community? This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Read More