Corporate Partnerships Corporate Partnerships are vital to the work we do. As a charity that relies solely on voluntary donations, we’re deeply grateful for the generosity of partners who have supported us over the years. We are proud to partner with corporates who share our vision and believe in our mission to ensure that every child in London has a healthy, safe, and happy childhood. Our amazing corporate partners support us through COTY, strategic partnerships, commercial partnerships, employee fundraising, and event & comms collaboration. Their commitment to our work helps us make a lasting impact for London’s children. Why partner with us? Every London borough is struggling with the challenge of child poverty. As a London-based charity, we have a deep understanding of the city’s unique challenges. Your support directly impacts the communities on your doorstep. We work with our corporate partners to develop a tailored calendar of events, communications, and fundraising initiatives to inspire and involve employees and customers. Through our partnership you can quadruple the impact of your donation, as every £1 raised unlocks £4 pounds in funding using our matched-funding model Deliver direct impact to children and families, and foster employee engagement, through our unique Community Outreach Programme, allowing employees to witness the impact of their efforts firsthand. Ways to get involved Office Fundraising: Some of the simplest and most effective fundraising opportunities happen right in your office. From payroll giving and monthly quizzes to walkathons and bake sales, there are countless fun and easy ways to get your colleagues involved. Challenge Events: We have spots available for exciting challenge events, and we'd love for you to join us! Whether it's a half marathon, a Tough Mudder, or a relay race, these events are a powerful way to raise awareness and vital funds to combat child poverty across London’s boroughs. Bespoke Events: Looking for something unique? Organise your own fundraising event—whether it’s skydiving or clay pigeon shooting. We’ll connect you with trusted partners to create an unforgettable experience for your team. Our Partners When you see a child's face when you’ve gone through a whole day of doing everything, realising the difference you've made, you get a sense of fulfilment and contentment that’s a lot better than you get from any sales deal, it’s far beyond that. It gives you a bug to go back and do more. If we all had our way, we’d be doing one a month. The majority of our team are from East London, so it was important to us that we could support a charity that was helping people in the communities where many of us were born. The Childhood Trust ticks all these boxes and from the get-go we have built a really great relationship with them. Bank of England In November 2023, staff at the Bank of England chose The Childhood Trust as one of three charities to support over a two-year partnership. Since the inception of the partnership, colleagues across the Bank of England have engaged in the partnership and will help to provide vital support for 700,000 children living in poverty in London. Their colleagues have taken part in numerous adventure playground renovations around London, and supported fantastic fundraising events including quiz and games show nights, various fundraising challenges as well as sport related fundraising with a football penalty shoot-out and darts tournament. Colleagues have also taken part in the Lord Mayor’s Show and showed their support of The Childhood Trust as one of 10 charities to benefit from charity auctions and a public ballot in summer 2024 of low serial number banknotes, following issuance of the new King Charles III banknotes. Bionic Bionic Services have been TCT partners since 2020, and they have truly championed our cause throughout the partnership. Aside from organising fantastic fundraising challenge events, including a team skydive, they have continuously supported our Transforming Spaces programme. In 2024 alone, they completed 3-bedroom redecorations with enthusiasm, dedication, and respect for the families and communities we are supporting. Cain International In January 2025, we launched our multi-year partnership with Cain International (‘Cain’), the alternative asset manager specialising in real estate investment solutions. Cain has chosen The Childhood Trust as it's new UK charity partner, reflecting their mission of creating tangible, meaningful change throughout the cities it operates in. This funding will help us deliver essential services to children living in poverty, enabling them to access opportunities that promote educational success, social mobility, and emotional well-being. As part of this partnership, Cain employees will also dedicate their time to volunteering. Each member of the team will participate in one volunteer day per year, with activities ranging from decorating children’s bedrooms to constructing adventure play areas. Jonathan Goldstein, Chief Executive at Cain International, said: “At Cain, we believe in supporting the communities we are a part of, and we are proud to name The Childhood Trust as our UK flagship charity partner. The Trust is doing vital work to support children facing real challenges, and by working together, we can provide them with the opportunities and support they need to build a brighter future.” Accurate monitoring and evaluation ensures that the projects we fund are continually meeting the needs of disadvantaged children as effectively as possible. Our programmes and projects improve the life chances of disadvantaged children and grow the capacity and sustainability of children’s charities in our network. This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Read More