Apply for funding Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance What we’ve funded Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants For grant holders Grant holder FAQs Grant holder FAQs About The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel News Contact Refugees and asylum seekers The Rayne Foundation has a long history of supporting refugees and asylum seekers. Why we prioritise this area Over recent years, many have been displaced from their home countries because of conflict or persecution. A large number of those arriving in the UK are unaccompanied children. Refugees and asylum seekers face many challenges, and their unmet needs are great. Descended from refugees themselves, the Rayne family has a personal interest in giving them a positive future. What we fund Applicant FAQs Featured projects Check eligibility & apply What we fund We focus on opportunities that raise aspirations and add to the positive narrative about refugees’ contributions to society. This means we fund work that’s closely aligned with our criteria of doing things differently, enabling innovation and the potential for wider application. We fund work that: Creates significant new opportunities relating to employability, entrepreneurial endeavours and personal development for refugees and asylum seekers Uses the arts and creativity to build community between migrants and the wider community The Foundation has also made a number of grants to organisations providing specialist mental health support to people with experience of the asylum system, particularly young people. We will continue to support some of our existing grantee partners but are no longer seeking new applications in this area. Funding criteria The Rayne Foundation funds work that: Is based on different thinking and enables innovation Has potential for wider application beyond the funded proposal Is informed by direct delivery and has a clear, positive impact on people’s lives Can demonstrate match-funding contributions to the project Enables and encourages collaboration between sectors and silos Develops best practice and captures learnings to share with others Adds to sector expertise and leadership When assessing an application, we look for good ideas from which others can learn and that have lessons beyond the local. We believe that to contribute to lasting social change, we must support creative and collaborative approaches that build and test solutions to some of the most difficult challenges society faces, so we like to fund innovative projects that approach issues differently. It’s important to us that the organisations we fund are outward-facing, networked, and actively seeking to collaborate. We believe this maximises the potential for learning to be shared and for our funding to have impact beyond the immediate grant. For more detailed information on our application guidance, please visit the page linked below. Applicant FAQ's The Rayne Foundation funds project and salary costs of usually £10,000 to £30,000 per year for up to three years. This is a guide, and we encourage you to talk to us if this grant size and duration doesn’t work for you. We consider applications for core costs, but prefer to do so when we have an established relationship with the applicant, usually through previous project funding. Statutory organisations need to consider how a grant from us will enable transformation over and above the funding required to deliver statutory obligations. For-profit organisations need to make the case that charitable funding is necessary to enable transformative change. We expect statutory and for-profit organisations to work collaboratively with the wider voluntary sector. The Rayne Foundation funds work in the UK relating to: Quality of life for older people and their carers Mental health of children and young people Opportunities for refugees and asylum seekers The Foundation doesn’t accept applications from individuals, or organisations working or based outside of the UK. The Rayne Foundation doesn’t consider applications: Outside our programme areas That don’t meet our funding criteria For day-to-day running costs of local organisations or buildings For capital, equipment or vehicle appeals For medical research Exclusively focused on campaigning and lobbying work For retrospective funding For endowments For individual use From organisations who have applied and been rejected in the past 12 months We run a rolling, open grants programme with no deadline. First, take our eligibility quiz . If the quiz indicates that you are a good match for us, submit an Expression of Interest (EOI). This gives us an initial understanding of your organisation and the work you would like us to fund. Having assessed your EOI, the Grants Team may invite you to submit a full application, allowing us to gain a deeper understanding of your organisation’s work. When assessing this, we’re seeking to feel confident in your organisation’s ability to deliver the proposed work, and understand how you will evaluate it and capture any learning. After assessing the full application, we may arrange a visit to your organisation. Following this, we will decide whether to take the application to our Board of Trustees for a decision. We are very happy to discuss how we can best support you in submitting an application. Please contact us to share your access requirements. No. When you’ve submitted an Expression Of Interest, you can expect a decision within 1 month as to whether your application will proceed further. Assessment of the full application usually takes around 2 months, after which we will be in contact about our decision regarding a visit to your organisation. Featured projects Refugee Education UK (REUK) Refugees and asylum seekers REUK’s Educational Wellbeing project addresses the challenges that commonly force refugee and asylum-seeking young people out of education. Breaking Barriers Refugees and asylum seekers Breaking Barriers is bringing together a network of partners and funders to enable access to employment for refugees and to develop a sustainable presence in new locations. The Bike Project Refugees and asylum seekers Our grant for core costs will enable the expansion of the Bike Project to more cities across England and the delivery of its core projects for refugees and asylum seekers. “Your strengths are in how staff handle applicants, they are well-informed, clear and encouraging in line with your eligibility and criteria.” We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Policy Strictly Necessary Cookies Website Satistics This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Please see our privacy policy . Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.