Apply for funding Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance What we’ve funded Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants For grant holders Grant holder FAQs Grant holder FAQs About The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel News Contact Application guidance Open grants programme application guidance Here you can find application guidance covering: Our grant-making approach Our funding priority areas Types of work we fund Eligibility Application process Application timelines Types of costs we cover Funding relationship Our grant-making approach When designing our grant-making programmes, we use our values as a framework, aiming to be trusting, collaborative, creative and rigorous. We recognise the time and energy you put into funding applications, so we keep our processes as simple as possible. We ask only for the information we need to decide whether your proposal fits with our aims. We use our priority areas and funding criteria as assessment tools. We want to make the application process accessible and inclusive. If you aren’t sure if your work is a good fit or our processes and communications aren’t meeting your needs, we’re very happy to discuss your proposed work or accessibility requirements. Contact the team . We’re keen to connect with and learn from external stakeholders, especially our grantee organisations. We’re immensely grateful for the wisdom and knowledge they generously share with us, which we use to improve our grant-making. We participate in sector forums and build relationships with organisations and individuals with varied perspectives, including community and sector leaders, academics, policymakers, and other funders. Our funding priority areas We only fund work that directly benefits one or more of the groups below. We prioritise specific areas of work. Children and young people’s improved mental health and wellbeing We prioritise work that: Supports early childhood (0-5 years including the perinatal period) with family/carer interventions that aim to reduce the impact of early childhood trauma. Supports care experienced* children and young people, those on the edge of care**, or leaving care, with interventions that prioritise improved mental health and wellbeing. Applications for creative and artistic approaches to achieving progress in this priority area are also strongly encouraged. Note: *By care experienced we mean the time spent living with foster carers under local authority care, residential care (e.g. a children’s home), looked after at home under a supervision order, or kinship care with relatives or friends either officially (e.g. under a special guardianship order) or informally without local authority support. **The Rayne Foundation takes an inclusive approach to this terminology and will be guided by applicants that support children and young people (and by extension their families) with interventions that aim to prevent them from entering care. Refugees and asylum seekers We prioritise work that: Creates significant new opportunities relating to employability, entrepreneurial endeavours and personal development for refugees and asylum seekers. Supports the mental health of survivors of torture. Uses the arts and creative endeavours to actively encourage building community between migrants and the wider community. Improved quality of life for people in later life and their carers We prioritise work that meets two or more of the following: Driven by collaboration in a particular place Connects the dots of care provision for people drawing on care in later life and their carers. Increases agency, voice, and visibility of people in later life and their carers. Embeds and sustains creativity and the arts in the delivery of care. Find out more about our priority areas by visiting Overview . Types of work and organisations we fund We believe that to contribute to lasting social change, we must support creative and collaborative approaches that build and test solutions to some of society’s most difficult challenges. Our funding criteria As well as being within one of our funding priority areas , the proposed work must meet the following essential criteria: Approaches issues differently and enables innovation Has potential for wider application beyond the funded proposal Is informed by direct delivery and has a clear, positive impact on people’s lives Can demonstrate match-funding contributions to the project And ideally the following three desirable criteria: Enables and encourages collaboration between sectors and silos Develops best practice and captures learnings to share with others Adds to sector expertise and leadership Innovation We look for organisations that think differently and enable innovation. We define innovation as doing things differently to improve outcomes. This could be through introducing new methods, ideas, or products to improve services and systems. If you’re applying for funding, we suggest asking yourselves how your approach differs from established approaches. And how this will improve outcomes for the people you’re supporting. Wider application We believe work has the potential for wider application when other organisations or individuals can learn from it and apply the learning to their own work. In all the work we fund, we look for good ideas from which others can learn and that have lessons beyond the local. The organisations we fund are outward facing, networked, and make active efforts to collaborate. This maximises the potential for sharing learning and for our funding to have an impact beyond the immediate grant. While we recognise the vast and invaluable amount of work that local organisations do to support our three priority groups, we don’t fund work that continues an organisation’s business-as-usual services and activities, or work that has impact at a local level but is not set up to share learning and influence wider change. If you’re applying for funding, we suggest asking yourselves what innovative work is going on across the UK in your sector? And how does your work build on this to improve outcomes for the people you are supporting? Match-funding Match-funding can be made up of financial and/or in-kind contributions from other funders or organisations, as well as internal resources and capacity allocated by the applicant organisation. Where organisations are applying for project funding, we make a judgment regarding the level of match-funding we expect to see based on the size and capacity of the organisation and the potential of the proposed work to have sustained impact beyond our grant funding. Where organisations are applying for funding towards core costs, the annual grant size requested should not represent more than 10% of the organisation’s annual income. Best practice We define best practice as a working method or set of working methods that is commonly accepted as being the best to use in a particular sector or industry, usually described formally and in detail. Equity, diversity and inclusion When making decisions, we take into account that certain groups experience greater disadvantages and additional barriers to accessing support services, opportunities and funding. We want to see recipient organisations work actively to build equity, diversity and inclusion into their projects and meet the needs of historically under-served communities. We are continuing to develop and strengthen our own approach to equity, diversity, and inclusion. Social change through creative approaches We have a history of supporting organisations to achieve social change through creative approaches. Applications for creative and artistic approaches to achieving progress in one or more of our priority areas are strongly encouraged. We have some long-standing relationships with arts organisations that may also continue to receive funding. Eligibility We fund work that could change the way issues are tackled in our society and which could have lessons for others beyond the funded organisation. We want to support the people and organisations that are best placed to do this. We are open to receiving Expressions of Interest (EOIs) from voluntary, statutory, and for-profit organisations. We need to understand why our funding is needed, how the funding will be used to unlock and overcome barriers, and that the applicant organisation is committing funding and/or support in kind from its own resources proportionate to its capacity. Take our eligibility quiz to find out if your project is a good match for our organisation. Statutory organisations need to consider how a grant from us will enable transformation over and above delivering statutory obligations. For-profit organisations will need to show that charitable funding is necessary to enable transformative change. We expect statutory and for-profit organisations that receive our funding to work collaboratively with the voluntary sector. We will not consider applications: Outside of our funding priority areas That don’t meet our funding criteria For day-to-day running costs of local organisations or buildings For capital, equipment or vehicle appeal For medical research Exclusively focussed on campaigning and lobbying work For retrospective funding For endowments For individual use From organisations working or based outside the UK From organisations who have applied and been rejected in the past 12 months Free reserves Organisations with high levels of unrestricted reserves are less likely to need our funding. Where an organisation has more than 9 months’ running costs in unrestricted reserves, we need to understand the rationale behind the high reserves position and see a proportionate contribution of internal resources to the proposed work. Organisations with low reserves or an overall deficit need to show that their organisation is viable, and that they are taking action to increase reserves. Application process Since the Foundation’s founding in 1962, we have run an open grants programme, enabling us to hear what’s needed from those closest to the work. We receive significantly more expressions of interest than we can fund with our available budget. In an average year, we receive over 650 applications. We make around 50 grants each year with an approximate total value of just over £2 million. Expressions of Interest If our eligibility quiz indicates that you’re a good match, the next step is to submit an Expression of Interest (EOI). The aim of the EOI is for us to understand your work, what you are seeking funding for and how this meets our funding criteria. This is your chance to share what is most exciting and innovative about what you do and how working with the Rayne Foundation would enable and enhance your organisation’s work. With the EOI we’re looking for a short, focussed and clear explanation. We don’t expect detailed project plans, budgets, evaluation metrics, or financial and governance information at this stage. The Grants Team will also look at your website to get a sense of the work that you do. We welcome and collect feedback from organisations completing an EOI to understand how this process works for applicants so that we can continually improve it. Full application Following assessment of the EOI against the funding criteria, the Grants Team will either invite organisations to develop a full application or notify applicants that they have not been successful. Due to team capacity, we don’t give detailed feedback on every unsuccessful EOI. However the team will share which funding criteria you didn’t meet in order to increase your understanding of our decision-making and inform future applications. If you’re invited to make a full application, you will have the opportunity to provide a comprehensive proposal. The Grants Team will be looking to understand your work more fully, feel confident in your ability to deliver the project and clarify how you will evaluate it and capture any learning. As part of our due diligence process, you’ll need to provide documents such as: Governance structure Recent, signed off financial accounts Project timeline Project budget Safeguarding policy Contact details of two referees Once the Grants Team has reviewed the full application and accompanying documents, we will probably arrange a visit to your organisation. Visits bring the work to life for the team and help us to build understanding and relationships with the people and organisations we fund. Application to Board The next step is for the Grants Team to decide whether to take the grant application to the Board of Trustees for decision. Applications that are to be presented to Board are assigned a member of the Grants Team to manage the process. Applications that are not be taken to the Board will receive feedback from the Grants Team. The assigned member of the Grants Team is responsible for drawing together the relevant information – based on the written application and the visit – for the Board and presenting the grant recommendation at a quarterly Board meeting. Application timelines Organisations need to plan their fundraising activities and expected income so we aim to respond to applications in a timely fashion. The table below outlines our intended timelines – although these can vary according to your needs and our capacity. Step Activity Actions Time Taken For Outcome 1 Expression of Interest Applicant – submits EOI Grants Team – informs applicant if they are invited to submit full application 1 month from submission of EOI 2 Full application Applicant – submits full application and accompanying documents Grants Team – informs applicant if application will be taken further and timing of decision-making Applicant and Grants Team – organise visit (if requested) 1 month from submission of full application and any additional requested information 1 month from submission of full application and any additional requested information 3 Presentation to Board Grants Team – presents application to Board 1-3 months from grants team decision to take application to Board (depending on timing of next quarterly Board meeting) 4 Notification of grant decision and contract sent Trustee Board – decision at quorate Board meeting 1 week from Board meeting 5 Payment of first tranche of grant Applicant – submission of signed grant agreement 21 days unless any conditions need to be met or the project commences at a later date A typical grant application takes 4-6 months to complete. Type of costs we cover and grant size Grant timelines and budgets will be developed with you as part of the full application and will reflect your needs and context. Meeting complex needs and addressing entrenched social issues takes time, so we usually make multi-year grants. As we seek to fund work that does things differently and tests new approaches, our funding frequently covers specific project costs, including salaries and a reasonable contribution to overheads and on-costs. We encourage organisations to take a full cost recovery approach to project budgets. Where an organisation is making a step-change in the way that it works or tackles a particular issue, we’re open to funding core costs. However, we don’t fund delivery of day-to-day services or business-as-usual. In the past, grants have typically ranged between £10,000 and £30,000 per year but average grant sizes have been increasing over recent years. The EOI asks applicants to indicate the grant size they are applying for. In the development of a full application, we work with applicants to understand their financial position and the project budget more fully and agree together an appropriate grant recommendation for the Board. Funding relationship Open communication and collaborative partnership are important characteristics of our funding relationships. Partner organisations can expect us to: Be open to hearing about when work is going well and when there are challenges Provide empathetic, practical, and pragmatic support Be committed to enabling collaboration, connection, and shared learning Consider how to use our networks and influence to support positive social change Offer use of our meeting room in central London We expect funded partner organisations to: Share progress on the funded grant with us on an annual basis Share strategic thinking, insights and learning with us on an annual basis Be open to participation in networks and other opportunities to share learning and develop best practice, including events we facilitate, as capacity allows We welcome feedback to improve our grant-making. From time to time, we’ll ask for feedback on our application and grant processes. We showcase the work and learning of organisations we fund so may ask for case studies and images to share on our website. Through annual reporting, we ask organisations to update us on the funded work, including what has been successful and challenging, what has changed and what has been learnt. A schedule and format for annual reporting is agreed with grantee organisations and included within the grant offer letter. Find out more: grant holder FAQs . Download application guidance Download Expression of Interest form “They understand that leadership and advocacy doesn’t happen for free or overnight. They’ve taken the time to really understand the sector they’re funding in, and the pressures.” We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Policy Strictly Necessary Cookies Website Satistics This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Please see our privacy policy . Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.