Apply for funding Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance What we’ve funded Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants For grant holders Grant holder FAQs Grant holder FAQs About The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel News Contact Grant holder FAQs Here you’ll find information on everything from receiving an offer to annual reporting to the support available. This information may also be helpful if you’re considering applying for a grant. Rayne Foundation FAQs | Rayne Trust FAQs Rayne Foundation (UK) grants Answers to frequently asked questions about UK grants from the Foundation relating to: Children and young people’s improved mental health and wellbeing Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers If you’re fundraising from other sources we’ll allow you plenty of time to find additional funding on condition that you keep us regularly updated on your progress. If your grant lasts over 1 year, you’ll need to provide us with a yearly monitoring report. The deadlines are set out in your grant offer letter. We make reporting process as straightforward as possible, but if you have a query about report due dates or the information required, get in touch . We require a satisfactory monitoring report and the financial information requested in order to make the next payment. We’re keen to hear what the grant has helped you to achieve, but also about any challenges you’re facing, and any useful lessons you’ve learned. Be as frank as possible, even if everything didn’t go to plan, so that we can improve our own grant making. A copy of our monitoring report form is attached to the email outlining your grant offer/containing your grant offer letter. If you require a new one, download it here . No. You need to wait until your grant period has ended. We’d be delighted for you to acknowledge our support for your project in communications such as your website or annual report. You can also use our logo in communications about the work we support, in accordance with our brand guidelines. If you’re planning a press release and want to include our name, please contact us. The Rayne Foundation has a large and accessible meeting room available to active grantees without charge up to a three times a year, depending on availability. The room has a maximum capacity of 20 people board room style. It can also be split into two smaller rooms which can hold a maximum of 10 and 12 guests respectively. Contact our Office Manager, Selina Smith, at ssmith@raynefoundation.org.uk . If the date you’ve requested is available, Selina will send you a booking form. Once this has been signed and returned, she will confirm the booking via email. Check this document for further information: meeting room and booking conditions . Rayne Trust (Israel) grants Answers to frequently asked questions about grants from the Trust relating to Israel. Yes. We can consider amendments on a case-by-case basis. Please email our Trust Manager, Nurit Gordon at ngordon@raynetrust.org . A copy of our monitoring report form is attached to the email outlining your grant offer/containing your grant offer letter. If you require a new one, download it here . Yes. Our final report template is attached to the email outlining your offer. If you require a new one, download it here . We’d be delighted for you to acknowledge our support for your project in communications such as your website or annual report. You can also use our logo in communications about the work we support, in accordance with our brand guidelines. If you’re planning a press release and want to include our name, please email our Trust Manager, Nurit Gordon at ngordon@raynetrust.org . If your grant lasts over 1 year, you’ll need to provide us with a yearly monitoring report. The deadlines are set out in your grant offer letter. We make reporting process as straightforward as possible, but if you have a query about report due dates or the information required, get in touch with Nurit Gordon, at ngordon@raynetrust.org . We require a satisfactory monitoring report and the financial information requested in order to make the next payment. We’re keen to hear what the grant has helped you to achieve, but also about any challenges you’re facing, and any useful lessons you’ve learned. Be as frank as possible, even if everything didn’t go to plan, so that we can improve our own grant making. “Whilst many funders have prioritised funding strictly 'new' initiatives, Rayne have been open to funding improvements, test of change, and innovations within 'existing' projects.” We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Policy Strictly Necessary Cookies Website Satistics This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Please see our privacy policy . Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.