Apply for funding Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance What we’ve funded Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants For grant holders Grant holder FAQs Grant holder FAQs About The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel News Contact Latest projects Shared Lives Plus Children and young people Shared Lives is a model of support which involves matching someone who needs support with a carefully approved Shared Lives carer. Articulate Children and young people Articulate Cultural Trust was set up to ensure that children and young people with care-experience and caring responsibilities have a positive childhood and a brighter future The Reader Organisation Children and young people The Reader Organisation’s Reading Heroes project provides shared reading for enjoyment outside school settings to care-experienced children. Refugee Education UK (REUK) Refugees and asylum seekers REUK’s Educational Wellbeing project addresses the challenges that commonly force refugee and asylum-seeking young people out of education. Upswing Older people and their carers Upswing’s Homemade Circus project will promote active participation, build social connection, and champion care homes as welcoming spaces for older people. Jamie’s Farm: Spreading Our Approach Children and young people This grant will enable wider understanding of how to support education professionals providing pastoral support to children and young people. Delight Children and young people Our funding of core costs will enable Delight to expand its arts-based learning programmes for children and young people from disadvantaged backgrounds and/or with additional learning needs. National Museums Liverpool Older people and their carers Our funding will enable National Museums Liverpool to deliver tailored in-person museum experiences to people living with dementia around Merseyside. The Good Gym: Coach Visits Project Older people and their carers With our funding, Good Gym will relaunch and expand its intergenerational befriending programme. Breaking Barriers Refugees and asylum seekers Breaking Barriers is bringing together a network of partners and funders to enable access to employment for refugees and to develop a sustainable presence in new locations. The Bike Project Refugees and asylum seekers Our grant for core costs will enable the expansion of the Bike Project to more cities across England and the delivery of its core projects for refugees and asylum seekers. The Enthum Foundation Refugees and asylum seekers We’re funding core costs to enable research and to support the replication of safe homes for unaccompanied asylum-seeking children aged 16+. “They understand that leadership and advocacy doesn’t happen for free or overnight. They’ve taken the time to really understand the sector they’re funding in, and the pressures.” We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Policy Strictly Necessary Cookies Website Satistics This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Please see our privacy policy . Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.