Apply for funding Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance What we’ve funded Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants For grant holders Grant holder FAQs Grant holder FAQs About The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel News Contact Grants for work in Israel The Rayne Trust is an independent grant-making charity which aims to build bridges between communities and acts as a catalyst in supporting new ideas or ways of working. The Trust works to develop and increase tolerance and understanding between communities of different backgrounds and to help bring people in from the margins of society. What we fund Applicant FAQs Featured projects Check eligibility & apply What we fund The Trust in Israel favours organisations whose services are equally accessible by all citizens, and whose work provides direct benefits to people who are living in challenging and/or vulnerable circumstances. Our priority areas are: Building an equitable and shared society between Arabs and Jews Improved mental health and resilience-building in the periphery Supporting refugees and asylum seekers Funding criteria The Rayne Trust funds work that: Approaches issues differently and enables innovation Has potential for wider application beyond the funded proposal Is informed by direct delivery and has a clear, positive impact on people’s lives Enables and encourages collaboration between sectors and silos Develops best practice and captures learnings to share with others Adds to sector expertise and leadership Can demonstrate match-funding contributions to the project Enabling innovation and wider application When assessing an application, we look for good ideas from which others can learn and that have lessons beyond the local. We believe that to contribute to lasting social change, we must support creative and collaborative approaches that build and test solutions to some of the most difficult challenges society faces, so we like to fund innovative projects that approach issues differently. It’s important to us that the organisations we fund are outward-facing, networked, and actively seeking to collaborate. We believe this maximises the potential for learning to be shared and for our funding to have impact beyond the immediate grant. You can read the Rayne Trust’s complete guidance here . Applicant FAQ’s We fund salary and project costs usually of £10,000 to £20,000 pa for up to 3 years. We prefer to fund alongside others and encourage the involvement of other funders or organisations as we do not contribute to more than 50% of the funding required. We consider the size of your request relative to your overall turnover. We fund charitable and not-for-profit organisations, targeting our fundings towards organisations that don’t receive 75% or more from public funding. Large, national organisations with a turnover of more than 10 million shekels are unlikely to receive a grant unless they are particularly well placed to tackle a specific need. We will not consider applications: Outside of our programme areas That do not meet the key funding criteria listed above For medical research Exclusively focused on campaigning and lobbying work For retrospective funding For endowments For individuals use From organisations who have applied and been rejected in the past 12 months We run a rolling, open grants programme with no deadline. Fill out our application form , in which you’ll be asked questions related to your organisation, the proposed project, and safeguarding. Email the completed form in Word or PDF format to israelapplications@raynetrust.org . Following assessment of this form, our Grants Team may invite you to share a more detailed proposal, allowing us to gain a deeper understanding of your organisation’s work. At this stage, we may arrange a visit to your organisation. Following this, we will decide whether the application will be taken to the Board for a decision. We take our safeguarding responsibility seriously, and it plays an important part in our due diligence process. As part of best practice, the Charity Commission in England and Wales asks that grantees in Israel confirm that they have policies and procedures in place that demonstrate how they protect vulnerable populations. It is your responsibility to ensure that these people are protected from harm, abuse, and neglect. Examples may include users’ emotional harassment of uses of your charity, or of your staff. In this case, we expect you to have procedures in place to protect that individual. For us to confirm that you are taking safeguarding seriously, applicants will be asked to answer questions related to safeguarding on our application form. You can expect to receive a decision from us within 3 to 4 months of the application date, although this may sometimes be extended to 6 months. No. You need to wait at least 12 months to submit another application. Featured projects Shared Lives Plus Children and young people Shared Lives is a model of support which involves matching someone who needs support with a carefully approved Shared Lives carer. Articulate Children and young people Articulate Cultural Trust was set up to ensure that children and young people with care-experience and caring responsibilities have a positive childhood and a brighter future The Reader Organisation Children and young people The Reader Organisation’s Reading Heroes project provides shared reading for enjoyment outside school settings to care-experienced children. “We’ve been able to have frank and open discussions with the staff team.” We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Policy Strictly Necessary Cookies Website Satistics This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Please see our privacy policy . Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.