Apply for funding Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance What we’ve funded Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants For grant holders Grant holder FAQs Grant holder FAQs About The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel News Contact Overview Children and young people’s mental health and wellbeing The Rayne Foundation offers grants for improving the mental health and wellbeing of children and young people in the UK. Type of funding: Project and salary costs Core costs where we have an existing relationship with applicant Length: 1-3 years Decision timescale: Up to 6 months Organisation type: UK-based voluntary, statutory and not-for-profit organisations Priority groups: Children and Young People who are care-experienced or care leavers AND Early Childhood (0-5 year-olds) Learn more about children and young people with mental health needs Refugees and asylum seekers The Rayne Foundation offers grants for creating opportunities for refugees and asylum seekers in the UK. Type of funding: Project and salary costs Core costs where we have an existing relationship with applicant Length: 1-3 years Decision timescale: Up to 6 months Organisation type: UK-based voluntary, statutory and not-for-profit organisations People in later life and their carers The Rayne Foundation offers grants for improving the quality of life for people in later life and their carers in the UK. Type of funding: Project and salary costs Core costs where we have an existing relationship with applicant Length: 1-3 years Decision timescale: Up to 6 months Organisation type: UK-based voluntary, statutory and not-for-profit organisations Learn more about older people and their carers Community centres The Rayne Trust is supporting the development of new, holistic community centres in disadvantaged areas of the UK. Although the programme is not yet open for grant applications, we are interested in hearing from you if you are involved in work to set up a new, locally-led and multi-functional community centre which meets our aims as set out on the programme page , please contact us to talk about this. Grants for work in Israel The Rayne Trust offers grants for work in Israel for developing and increasing tolerance and understanding between communities and people of different backgrounds. Type of funding: Project and salary costs Core costs where we have an existing relationship with applicant Length: 1-3 years Decision timescale: Up to 6 months Organisation type: Israel-based voluntary, statutory and not-for-profit organisations “The ability to actually have real conversations and proper dialogue is incredibly valuable and rare.” We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Policy Strictly Necessary Cookies Website Satistics This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Please see our privacy policy . Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.