Apply for funding Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance What we’ve funded Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants For grant holders Grant holder FAQs Grant holder FAQs About The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel News Contact Children and young people’s mental health and wellbeing Over the past five years, the Rayne Foundation has allocated over £3.2 million towards 72 projects to improve the mental health and wellbeing of children and young people. Why we prioritise this area The increase in poor mental health among children and young people has been well documented. We’ve recognised the need for more preventative work that provides support at an earlier stage. We also understand that certain groups are more likely to experience poor mental health and wellbeing; with, for example, around 60% of children in care reported to have an emotional or health problem. What we fund Applicant FAQs Featured projects Check eligibility & apply What we fund We focus on projects that offer mental health and wellbeing support to children and young people and their families/carers in challenging circumstances and where there is a lack of help. We fund work that: Supports early childhood (0-5 years including the perinatal period) with family/carer interventions that aim to reduce the impact of early childhood trauma. Supports children and young people who are care experienced* , on the edge of care**, or leaving care, with interventions that prioritise improved mental health and well-being. Applications for creative and artistic approaches to achieving progress in this priority area are also strongly encouraged. Note: *By care experienced we mean the time spent living with foster carers under local authority care, residential care (e.g. a children’s home), looked after at home under a supervision order, or kinship care with relatives or friends either officially (e.g. under a special guardianship order) or informally without local authority support. **The Rayne Foundation takes an inclusive approach to this terminology and will be guided by applicants that support children and young people (and by extension their families) with interventions that aim to prevent them from entering care. Funding criteria The Rayne Foundation funds work that: Is based on different thinking and enables innovation Has potential for wider application beyond the funded proposal Is informed by direct delivery and has a clear, positive impact on people’s lives Can demonstrate match-funding contributions to the project Enables and encourages collaboration between sectors and silos Develops best practice and captures learnings to share with others Adds to sector expertise and leadership When assessing an application, we look for good ideas from which others can learn and that have lessons beyond the local. We believe that to contribute to lasting social change, we must support creative and collaborative approaches that build and test solutions to some of the most difficult challenges society faces, so we like to fund innovative projects that approach issues differently. It’s important to us that the organisations we fund are outward-facing, networked, and actively seeking to collaborate. We believe this maximises the potential for learning to be shared and for our funding to have impact beyond the immediate grant. For more detailed information on our application guidance, please visit the page linked below. Applicant FAQ's The Rayne Foundation funds project and salary costs of usually £10,000 to £30,000 per year for up to three years. This is a guide, and we encourage you to talk to us if this grant size and duration doesn’t work for you. We consider applications for core costs, but prefer to do so when we have an established relationship with the applicant, usually through previous project funding. Statutory organisations need to consider how a grant from us will enable transformation over and above the funding required to deliver statutory obligations. For-profit organisations need to make the case that charitable funding is necessary to enable transformative change. We expect statutory and for-profit organisations to work collaboratively with the wider voluntary sector. The Rayne Foundation funds work in the UK relating to: Quality of life for older people and their carers Mental health of children and young people Opportunities for refugees and asylum seekers The Foundation doesn’t accept applications from individuals, or organisations working or based outside of the UK. The Rayne Foundation doesn’t consider applications: Outside our programme areas That don’t meet our funding criteria For day-to-day running costs of local organisations or buildings For capital, equipment or vehicle appeals For medical research Exclusively focused on campaigning and lobbying work For retrospective funding For endowments For individual use From organisations who have applied and been rejected in the past 12 months We run a rolling, open grants programme with no deadline. First, take our eligibility quiz . If the quiz indicates that you are a good match for us, submit an Expression of Interest (EOI). This gives us an initial understanding of your organisation and the work you would like us to fund. Having assessed your EOI, the Grants Team may invite you to submit a full application, allowing us to gain a deeper understanding of your organisation’s work. When assessing this, we’re seeking to feel confident in your organisation’s ability to deliver the proposed work, and understand how you will evaluate it and capture any learning. After assessing the full application, we may arrange a visit to your organisation. Following this, we will decide whether to take the application to our Board of Trustees for a decision. We are very happy to discuss how we can best support you in submitting an application. Please contact us to share your access requirements. No. When you’ve submitted an Expression Of Interest, you can expect a decision within 1 month as to whether your application will proceed further. Assessment of the full application usually takes around 2 months, after which we will be in contact about our decision regarding a visit to your organisation. Featured projects Shared Lives Plus Children and young people Shared Lives is a model of support which involves matching someone who needs support with a carefully approved Shared Lives carer. Articulate Children and young people Articulate Cultural Trust was set up to ensure that children and young people with care-experience and caring responsibilities have a positive childhood and a brighter future The Reader Organisation Children and young people The Reader Organisation’s Reading Heroes project provides shared reading for enjoyment outside school settings to care-experienced children. “I really appreciate the strong sense of partnership, especially since our second grant. I feel they really show an interest in us and our work and that there is a genuine two-way conversation about learning.” We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Policy Strictly Necessary Cookies Website Satistics This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Please see our privacy policy . Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.