Apply for funding Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance Overview Children and young people Refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Community centres Application guidance What we’ve funded Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants Projects Better Careers for Better Care Awarded Grants For grant holders Grant holder FAQs Grant holder FAQs About The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel The Rayne Foundation Our strategy Our history Our team Work in Israel News Contact Promoting a fairer society and positive social change The Rayne Foundation’s purpose is to effect and promote positive social change. About us What we’ve funded What we do We make grants, convene and enable partnerships, draw out and share learning and seek to affect direct improvements in services and people’s lives. Our Values Our Mission and Strategy Meet the team Highlights from our history Our programme areas Our mission is to develop and share solutions that address society’s most pressing needs. So we’ve prioritised grant-making in the following areas. Children and young people We focus on projects that offer mental health and wellbeing support in challenging circumstances. Find out more about children and young people’s improved mental health and wellbeing Refugees and asylum seekers We focus on opportunities that raise aspirations and add to the positive narrative about refugees’ contributions to society. Find out more about refugees and asylum seekers People in later life and their carers Offering funding initiatives to enhance the quality of life and support services for older people and their carers. Find out more about older people and their carers Featured projects Shared Lives Plus Children and young people Shared Lives is a model of support which involves matching someone who needs support with a carefully approved Shared Lives carer. Articulate Children and young people Articulate Cultural Trust was set up to ensure that children and young people with care-experience and caring responsibilities have a positive childhood and a brighter future The Reader Organisation Children and young people The Reader Organisation’s Reading Heroes project provides shared reading for enjoyment outside school settings to care-experienced children. “Rayne punches above its weight. There are so few trusts working in this field, it feels like they’re being really thoughtful. I like the approach they take to being in early to test the case.” Latest news Reflections on our new strategy 21 August 2025 | News In this blog, Susan, Deputy Director, shares the thought processes which go on behind our public... Where People Meet: No one need be alone 31 July 2025 | News The journey the Foundation has been on to learn about the challenges and opportunities facing adult social care, and our future plans for proactive funding into the sector. The Rayne Foundation Report and Financial Statements 2024 15 July 2025 | News The Trustees present their report and financial statements for The Rayne Foundation for the year... We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Privacy Policy Strictly Necessary Cookies Website Satistics This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Please see our privacy policy . Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.