Staff Caroline Taylor Chief Executive Caroline has been Chief Executive since January 2016, having worked at ECF since 2004, and is responsible for the day-to-day management, growth and development of the Foundation. Caroline holds a master’s degree in Philanthropy, Social Investment and Grantmaking from Cass Business School and a bachelor’s degree in Communications. She is also a Trustee of Friends Provident Foundation. Zoe Brampton Grants Manager Zoe helps to deliver on all aspects of the Foundation's grantmaking, including advising potential funding applicants, assessing applications and preparing information for consideration by our fundholders. Catherine Burton Director of Finance and Resources Catherine leads on all aspects of our finances and investments, our financial reporting and compliance and contact with our Investment Managers, Auditors and Bankers. She manages our HR functions, helping to ensure effective recruitment, retention and development of our staff. She services our Finance & Investment and Audit & Risk Committees. Catherine holds the ICAEW Diploma in Charity Accounting (DChA). Dee Davies Executive Assistant Dee has years’ of PA experience in both public and private sectors. She provides business support to the CEO, Head of Development and wider senior management team. Adeola Dosunmu Grants Officer Adeola joined ECF in May 2022. He works in the grants team to advise potential applicants, assess funding requests and put these to our fundholders for decisions. He holds a Master’s degree in Finance and Investment from Queen Mary, University of London. Prior to joining ECF, he worked for Do It Now Now, an organisation focused on the empowerment of Black communities in the UK where he served as an external grant assessor. Jesse Farrer Marketing Manager Jesse joined Essex Community Foundation in 2025 as Marketing Manager. Responsible for leading on strategy and activations to raise awareness of the Foundation’s work. She joins from Adult Community Learning Essex and has also previously held roles with Essex Book Festival and Space NK. A proud Essex local, Jesse brings strong experience in digital media and community engagement. Lisa Green Grants Officer Lisa joined ECF in 2015. Sheworks within the grants team processing applications and leads on our funding for individuals. Tracy Hardy Finance Manager Tracy is responsible for processing the day-to-day finances of ECF and for managing the financial activities of our individual funds. She helps to prepare the annual audit, quarterly reporting and works with our Grants and Development teams ensuring they have the financial support they need. Tracy holds the MAAT AATQB qualification. Maria (Masha) Kravchuk Grants Administrator Maria joined us in May 2023 and provides administrative support to our busy grants team. She also welcomes people to our community space, the 'Foundation Hub', ensuring this runs efficiently. Jo Macaulay Head of Stewardship Jo ensures that all aspects of ECF’s work are effectively communicated to a wide audience, across different media. She works directly with our fundholders and grant recipients to publicise their work across the county, produces our annual review and manages all of the Foundation’s events. Steven Mackenzie Head of Operations Steve is responsible for ensuring that our processes, systems and facilities operate effectively and maximise productivity. He develops and leads projects on operational improvements and manages our support functions and premises to ensure a high level of service to all our stakeholders. Perry Norton Head of Development Perry is responsible for introducing the Foundation’s work to a wide audience of individuals, companies and professional advisers. He joined ECF from the Lord’s Taverners, the London-based youth cricket and disability sports charity, where he headed up the Corporate Fundraising team for five years. Before this, Perry was Business Development Manager at Essex Cricket. Andy Payne Worpole Director of Policy and Programmes Andy has over 25 years' experience of working in the charitable, public and private sectors delivering mental health services, community engagement and service improvement. He is responsible for the Foundation’s grantmaking, public policy and working with voluntary sector and partners to promote a thriving civil society in Essex. Andy is also a Trustee of NSUN a small national mental Health charity with a focus user-led support and lived experience. Frankie Webb-Huseyin Grants Officer Frankie joined the Foundation as part of the 2027 Talent Programme. She works within the grants team, advising local charities and assessing grant applications. Prior to this, she completed her Master’s degree in NGO and Development Management at the University of East London. Matthew Page Financial Administrator Matthew is our Finance Administrator, supporting the Finance Manager with day-to-day financial activity, particularly focussed upon income transactions, grant payments and banking. He has already completed AAT level 2 and is due to begin his AAT Level 3 Accounting studies soon, strengthening the Finance function within ECF.