Community Spotlight : Tendring Each year we award around £4 million in grants to charities and voluntary organisations working across Essex. Please find examples below of what has been supported locally. The filters will help you to look for organisations tackling specific issues or by area. The District filter is where the organisation is based. We add new stories all the time and hope you enjoy reading them. Find out how we can help you to give back to charities in Essex here . Apply for a grant to support your charitable work. We are committed to transparency and also publish information about our grants using 360Giving data standard. All A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Arts, Culture and Heritage Arts and events that explore culture and heritage have the power to strengthen bonds within communities and improve quality of life, as well as contribute to the local economy. Essex is fortunate to have an active and varied cultural scene and through our funds we support a wide range of voluntary organisations that showcase local talent and provide accessible and educational arts-based activities for local people to enjoy. Read about some of the projects below or view full list of grants awarded this year . Children and Young People Life is filled with challenges that children and young people must navigate as they grow up. Many follow a straightforward path, but for some, educational expectations, social media and peer pressure can lead to a wide range of issues including, anxiety, depression, eating disorders and self-harm. Supporting young people in their formative years, it vital to help them thrive and build the skills they need for adulthood. We support the work of voluntary and community organisations who tackle these issues and help to improve mental health and emotional well-being. Some also provide opportunities to work in the local community through volunteering as peer-mentors. Read about some of the projects below or view full list of grants awarded this year . Community Safety We support a wide range of projects throughout Essex that help people of all ages to keep safe in their homes and their community, aiming to ensure that they do not become isolated or targeted by criminals. For example, we support organisations that help children and young people to build skills, increase their confidence and equip them with the tools to make good decisions should they find themselves in a potentially dangerous situation and needing to make a choice. Others provide advice and accommodation for victims of crime and training among the elderly and those with learning or physical disabilities around the dangers of online fraud and scams. Read about some of the projects below or view full list of grants awarded this year . Disability We support a wide range of organisations throughout Essex that support people with disabilities and life-limiting illnesses. Their work not only provides activities and a safe space where individuals can have fun and learn new skills which are essential to their wellbeing, but it also gives vital respite to their family members and loved ones. Read about some of the projects we have supported below or view full list of grants awarded this year . Education, Training and Advice Many young people follow a straightforward path into a job or a career, progressing through the education system, gaining qualifications and moving on to college or university. But for others, particularly those who have a learning or physical disability, the journey is a struggle. Voluntary organisations offer a range of valuable learning opportunities and work experience that can help young people, and those with disabilities, to develop practical and social skills, build their confidence and improve their educational attainment. Read about some of the projects below or view full list of grants awarded this year . Environment It has long been understood that spending time outdoors can benefit your mental and physical health. With the strain of modern life being placed on the natural environment, helping to ensure it remains intact and a place for people to enjoy has become more important than ever. We have been pleased to support projects in Essex that help people to learn about and look after the local environment. Read about some of the projects below or view full list of grants awarded this year . Fairness and Equality Most people want to live in a community where they are treated fairly and where everyone works together to solve problems, has fun, feels safe, cares for one another and gets along. However, when some of the mechanisms that help make society fairer for all are either missing or not functioning in the way they should, people can be left behind. Treating people equally builds respect and trust. As a county we are fortunate to have many voluntary organisations whose specific aims are to provide services for people who, for whatever reason, need extra help and support. Read about some of the projects below or view full list of grants awarded this year . Housing and Homelessness People become homeless for lots of different reasons. There are social causes of homelessness, including a lack of affordable housing, poverty and unemployment as well as life changing events, such as family break-up, poor mental health or addiction, which can cause people to lose their homes. Identifying the underlying cause of homelessness is vital to successfully helping an individual to move on to a more positive and stable life. Read about some of the projects we have funded below or view full list of grants awarded this year . Mental Health It is estimated that 1 in 4 people are likely be affected by a mental health problem in their lifetime. In addition, the UK has a drinking culture and the highest prevalence of drug misuse in Europe, with approximately one third of all adults in England and Wales reported to have used drugs at least once in their lifetime. Having access to the right information is vital if you need help with these issues or if you are supporting someone who is struggling. We support voluntary organisations that work with people of all ages and from all backgrounds, to improve their mental health and wellbeing. Read about some of the projects below or view full list of grants awarded this year . Older communities Charities and voluntary organisations offer a lifeline for many older people. Their work helps the elderly to live independently for longer, manage their health issues and keep them from becoming victims of crime. They also provide support to carers and create opportunities where people can come together for meals and activities that build friendships and reduce social isolation. The contribution of voluntary and community organisations is vital to improve the health and wellbeing of older people and also significantly relieves pressure on social care and health services. Read about some of the projects we have funded below or view full list of grants awarded this year . Rural Projects At their best, rural communities are close-knit and have a strong sense of identity offering an unmatched quality of life. But many small market towns and villages in Essex have been hit hard by closures of schools, shops, churches, post offices and pubs. Reduced bus services can prevent people travelling to jobs and a lack of activities for the young can be a catalyst to social problems. By 2033, it is estimated that 28% of the Essex population will be older people. The closure of many local and community services, means that these people, including young adults and families, are increasingly likely to feel isolated within the place they call home. We have supported a wide range of projects in rural communities of Essex, including transport schemes, community shops and pubs, mobile pre-schools, outreach advice schemes and village hall improvement projects. Read about some of the projects below or view full list of grants awarded this year . Sport The advantages of sport in improving our physical and mental wellbeing are widely known. Whether it is walking in the countryside or attending classes at a gym, keeping active significantly contributes to our overall health and wellbeing. Team sports also create a sense of camaraderie and community, whilst nurturing friendships. We support many voluntary and community organisations that help local people to keep active, socialise and make friends. We also manage a small amount of funding that provide grants for individuals to support their sporting ambitions and where finance is the barrier to them achieving their full potential. Read about some of the projects below or view full list of grants awarded this year . Fairness and Equality 3food4U Read more 3Food4U began by collecting surplus food from supermarkets and offering it to those in need on a trust basis, with no referrals required. Today, they support over 1,500 families each week. With the help of 300 dedicated volunteers, they have distributed approximately 300,000 meals. The initiative is run entirely by volunteers, many of whom describe the experience as deeply rewarding. For them, it is a meaningful way to make a real difference in their community. Since its launch, 3Food4U has expanded its impact through additional community food projects, including their popular social and memory cafés. These welcoming spaces offer residents friendship, confidence and joy. Our very first Fundbuilder grant was awarded to 3Food4U. Thanks to this support, they have been able to expand the cafés to meet growing demand and continue bringing people together. “Health and wellbeing should never be a luxury. Everyone in our community deserves the chance to feel good physically, mentally and socially.” – Founder Pesh Kapasiawala Share Environment Abberton Rural Training Read more The charity, based in Chelmsford, distributed free allotment packs were distributed to 1,025 households across six Districts in Essex, with the aim of boosting residents’ physical and mental health by helping them to learn new skills. They were also encouraged to join a Facebook group to share their progress photos and talk with other participants, helping them to feel connected with others during a time when many felt isolated. We supported the start-up costs of this interactive ‘Grow Your Own’ project with a grant. Share Mental Health Abigail’s Footsteps Read more Moving forward after neonatal loss is a difficult and emotional time. Abigail’s Footsteps is there to provide guidance and care on this journey with dedicated support and therapy sessions for the families, and specialist training of midwives to provide help during this difficult time. Our support is helping Abigail’s Footsteps to bring tailored counselling to more families, helping them connect with professionals and give them access to coping techniques and mental healthcare. Share Sport Ability Using Sport Read more Their coaching sessions for all ages in Colchester and Maldon offers access to sport in a safe and supportive environment, teaching people new skills by using specialised equipment. A grant from us has enabled the organisation to recruit and train volunteers to increase the number of sessions they run. Their weekly multi-sports sessions are very popular and supports 60 members to get active, make new friends and to take part in team games. Share Disability Accuro (Care Services) Read more They offer adult social groups, youth groups, and skill sessions throughout the year for over 175 children, young people, and adults with disabilities. Their members enjoy activities, including visits to the zoo, bowling and cinema, which allows time to socialise, build confidence and allow their families to have some respite. Our support is helping them to continue offering a wide range of activities that reduce social isolation, increase happiness, support health and wellbeing, and develop the skills and potential of their members. Share Disability ACE Upcycling Read more Making goods from recycled wood, as well as restoring and upcycling furniture for sale to the public, teaches members hands-on skills that can help their members to find employment, and it is also a wonderful social opportunity. Josh, who works at ACE Upcycling said: “I really enjoy learning how to make things at ACE Upcycling. I have made planters, benches, tables and much more. I like working with Tim who volunteers at the project, as well as seeing all my friends.” We are pleased to have funded their new purpose built workshop in Stapleford Abbots. Share Sport Achievement Through Football Read more Working closely with schools, youth clubs and the Police, they engage with those who are most at risk of exploitation and membership of gangs. By bringing together young people from all backgrounds and cultures and using football as the focus, they break down barriers, tackle racial tension, promote teamwork and help them build social skills. We supported a project which provided additional sport sessions for young people identified as being at risk from grooming in Southend. Share Children and Young People Action for Family Carers Read more A significant goal of this work is helping to raise awareness of what an unpaid carer is so that people know there is support available to help them. Some of the services offered by Action for Family Carers include activity groups and carer clubs for young people, and counselling and support groups for adult carers in Colchester, Tendring and west Essex. We funded a schools co-ordinator who is helping to identify young carers in Braintree schools. James Clarke, chief executive of AFFC, said: “The majority of young people helping to take care of a parent or sibling will not label themselves as a ‘young carer’ because their role is just the norm for them. However, the pressure they are under can significantly affect their lives, not least their childhood where they invariably miss out on opportunities that other young people take for granted.” Share Sport Active Essex Foundation Read more The Foundation works in partnership with local organisations, delivering initiatives designed to reduce barriers for the whole community. They use the power of sport and physical activity to engage and support the most marginalised groups across the county. They also run healthy food clubs during school holidays to promote a good diet from an early age, which in turn develops an overall healthy lifestyle. We supported a project for Active Essex Foundation to reach out to young people in Harlow, Jaywick and Basildon to improve their mental wellbeing, physical health and safety. Share Sport Active Southend Read more We funded their extra-curricular activities for local young people who struggle in mainstream school and have been affected by crime. These included Kickboxing classes, cooking workshops, and a Fire Break scheme, where trained firefighters lead sessions to increase the young people’s self-worth and teamwork skills. This alternative form of learning helps to build the pupil’s confidence and aspirations for the future. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage African Families in the UK Read more By connecting BAME young people to their roots and teaching them cultural awareness at a young age, it is hoped that they will grow up into open-minded and responsible adults. Our funding has helped them deliver a range of workshops that focus on topics including education, mental health, parenting, teaching young people about their heritage and cultural diversity. We have also funded their work providing advocacy and awareness support to BAME women in Colchester in partnership with Stop the Traffik. Share Older communities Age Concern Southend Read more Lin Boulter, chief executive of Age Concern Southend, said, “Our new premises in Westcliff-on-Sea combines all of the services and activities that we offer to our members. The grant we received helped us to refurbish the centre to create a welcoming and friendly space where people can meet, socialise and receive support. “We regularly run social activities for our members, which include a dance fitness class, tai chi and yoga, so there is always something for everyone to enjoy, have fun and be active.” We are pleased to have awarded them funding for furniture at their new headquarters. Share Older communities Age Well East Read more They meet in person or speak on the telephone once a week and if additional support is needed, referrals can be made to other charities or organisations providing support with at-home care needs, help with bereavement or dementia. Our funds extended the service so that volunteers could work in more areas across Colchester and Tendring. This is vital as isolation is a significant problem that many older people face, especially when a loved one dies or where there is no immediate family close by. Share Children and Young People Aim Hi Read more They provide uniforms and essential household items to families in need of support and distribute food vouchers. They also run a bi-annual “bring your dad to school” event to help strengthen parent-child relationships, and this regularly sees over 100 dads or father figures attend. ECF helped to fund their reading outreach program through Aim Hi, for nursery age children and their families in Greenstead, Colchester. This community event helps children to learn to read, see how it can be fun and to overcome barriers by reading together. Share Community Safety Alpha Vesta Read more By providing talks, training, and consultancy services, and working with other agencies, local authorities and private employers, they raise awareness and improve understanding of the issue. We contributed towards the cost of providing these training sessions and programmes to help survivors regain their independence. Share Mental Health Ark Family Resource Centre Read more The centre has been running since 1953 and they provide a term-time nursery, counselling services for adults and children, an outreach programme, domestic violence help, respite care for children with disabilities, and support with supplying packed lunches for children in nursery. A grant from us has supported their running costs, helped them to develop their art therapy projects and enabled them to build on their capacity, increasing the number of referrals they can support and reach out to more people. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Autism and Nature Read more Through targeted work with local parents, the group raises awareness for the benefits of engaging children with autism with the natural environment. They provide families, schools, and local authorities with storybooks and guides about visiting heritage sites. For children with autism, being able to see where they are going beforehand and read about it in simple language, helps them to feel more comfortable and excited to explore the nature and history around them. A grant enabled them to publish an inclusive illustrated storybook called ‘Alex and Rosie Explore Essex Heritage’. Share Children and Young People Baby Stuff Braintree Read more The set-up is similar to foodbanks and parents can use the Baby Bank for essential equipment required for bringing up young children, including nappies and clothes. Susan Pedder, Trustee, said: “The need for clothes is often seen as below that of food, but children benefit from self-esteem, so as well as keeping them warm, a new coat adds so much to their lives. There are so many people needing support right now that we are having to buy clothing, rather than rely solely on donations. The grant awarded to us by ECF has enabled us to make a big difference to many more children”. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Bangladeshi Women’s Association Read more There are many different events that the group hold to promote and share their culture, and to involve their members in the local community, reducing social isolation. These include a lunch club, women’s only swim classes, and a project improving community safety. We helped fund the cost of some of these events, and we also supported the running costs for ongoing outreach in Colchester. Share Community Safety Bar ‘N’ Bus Trust Read more They offer activity programmes, in-school counselling and mentoring, and mobile youth club sessions, which are all aimed at helping young people to grow, develop and thrive. Their focus is to provide this support to young people in the location of their choosing, rather than bringing them to the group’s own venues. A large amount of their work takes place ‘on the street’ with detached youth workers taking their converted double-decker bus to parks and high streets to engage with young people where they are. Our grant enabled them to provide a young women’s self-defence and safety programme. This will give them to feel more secure when out and about in their local areas, develop their awareness of personal safety and build their confidence. Share Children and Young People Barnardo’s Read more The funding we awarded them was for a specific project supporting families that had arrived from Afghanistan and are living in temporary accommodation. To help the families to begin building a new life in Essex, Barnardo’s provided them with technology and educational resources for schoolwork, clothing vouchers so families could choose their own clothing, books, toys, and other essential items. Barnardo’s supported 420 family members through this project, helping them to integrate into their new community, reduce feelings of isolation, and strengthen their mental health. Share Disability Barrow Farm Riding for the Disabled Read more We awarded a grant to this purpose-built riding centre in rural Essex, between Chelmsford and Brentwood, to employ a part-time instructor. S pending time with horses and ponies is proven to help improve both mental and physical well-being and they make riding accessible for people who may otherwise be unable to learn due to disabilities. One parent whose child attends said: “Riding at Barrow Farm has increased my son’s core strength, his balance and his coordination. It has also helped hugely his social and emotional well-being. It has been a real game changer, not only for him but for our whole family.” Share Fairness and Equality Basildon Foodbank Read more The Foodbank was established in 2013 with the aim to stop food hunger in Basildon. Their work extends beyond this now, as they also provide toiletries such as feminine hygiene products and baby nappies to those that need them. Between April 2020 and March 2021, they provided 18,423 emergency food parcels to 2,047 people, but this number has grown dramatically since then, and from April 2022 to October 2022 the foodbank saw 1,844 people. A grant from us has supported their running costs to enable them to grow with the rising demand as a result of the cost-of-living crisis. Share Children and Young People Basildon Parents4Parents Read more Their non-judgmental approach to helping parents gives them emotional and practical guidance, support to access to local services, assistance in form filling and budgeting, alongside a listening ear. We awarded them funding towards the salary of a project co-ordinator, which will support their development and growth. Share Children and Young People BCCS Read more The charity offers one-to-one counselling to children and their families, helping to prevent and reduce behavioural and emotional problems. They also offer a counselling service to school staff as they understand how pressurised it can be to work in education. Our funding towards their core costs has supported the salary of a counsellor. Share Education, Training and Advice BDA Let’s Get Cooking Read more We funded their Let’s Get Cooking programme which coordinates Essex school and community-based cooking clubs. The grant also helped to produce and distribute recipe packs and run livestreamed cooking sessions for 3,256 children and their families. These sessions have given the children and their families the skills and confidence to improve their cooking, learn how to make the most out of ingredients and budget for meals. It has also produced a community of families, friends, and pupils who are excited to improve their health and well-being, gain food knowledge and practical kitchen skills. Share Housing and Homelessness Beacon House Ministries Read more Their day centre is a welcoming environment that provides people with hot food and drinks, shower facilities, hairdressing and washing services. They also offer toiletries and clothing for those that need them in the short term. Alongside this, they have provisions for GP services and therapy. This aims to keep people facing homelessness healthy and improves their well-being. Our funding helped to cover their running costs and increased the number of people they can help. They estimate that with this support, they will reach over 600 people a year. Share Community Safety Ben Kinsella Trust Read more The team use workshops to engage young people particularly, to change attitudes and prevent potential anti-social and criminal behaviour. In their workshops, they also empower attendees to take an amnesty pledge, to never carry a knife, These pledges are designed to encourage long-term, positive behavioural changes and stop potential harmful behaviour before it can arise. We supported the Trust’s work to deliver these workshops to secondary schools and youth groups across Colchester, Basildon and Thurrock. Share Older communities Benfleet u3a Read more The club is run by and supports older residents and focuses on helping them to have fun and to build friendships through group activities. While there are over 1,000 clubs in the UK, the one in Benfleet prides itself on having an especially welcoming atmosphere and has around 300 members. Curiosity does not end when you leave the workforce, and u3a enables members to share their knowledge with others, learn new skills and to socialise. Our grant helped them to run a series of workshops about IT and media for those who would not usually have access to insights on those topics. Technology is a great way to combat loneliness and helps to keep friends and family connected. Share Fairness and Equality Billericay Baby Basics Read more Billericay Baby Basics face increased demand for support at their baby-bank, which gifts baby-related essentials to mothers and families who need additional help to cope with the financial burden of caring for a newborn. They help people who are facing sickness, poverty, those seeking asylum, or those who have fled domestic violence. The expansion of the service, supported by a grant from ECF, is a chance for even more women to access this precious support. Share Fairness and Equality Billericay Foodbank Read more Their work has grown ever since then, in response to rising need. The Foodbank now benefits from around 70 volunteers. Thanks to public donations, as well as commitments from local supermarkets and food distribution organisations, they give out over 110 food parcels each week to over 265 people. A key focus of their work is helping people without judgement, so they feel comfortable returning to get the support they need. A grant from us is supporting their running costs and helping them to expand the items they provide. Share Mental Health Bishop’s Stortford Mencap Read more Grove cottage works to provide both social and educational activities for people of all ages in Essex who have additional needs or learning disabilities. At their clubs, helpful volunteers help visitors build lifelong friendships and avoid social isolation. This is important both for them to reach their full potential, and to provide respite for their families. We helped Grove Cottage cover their day-to-day running costs, so that their staff and volunteers could focus on continuing to provide the best care and support for their visitors. This can be in the form of support clubs, social gardening clubs, holiday clubs and more. Share Fairness and Equality Bobby’s Big Heart Read more The group has been growing in Canvey Island since 2017 and distributes food parcels all year round, as well as clothing and toys for children, providing them much needed comfort in a critical time. We enabled Bobby’s Big Heart to purchase a small van to collect and distribute food parcels more easily. They offer mental health support too and a safe space for people experiencing domestic violence to ask for non-judgemental understanding and support. Most of the help they give is short term to help people in crisis situations, but they also reach out to people who have ongoing problems and find to hard to engage with other services. Bobby’s also has good contacts with other organisations and signpost people to other help in order that they do not fall through the gaps in services. Share Disability BOSP (Brighter Opportunities for Special People) Read more They do this by providing family support and fun activities for children and young adults with disabilities and life-limiting illnesses. We have supported their salary of their Services Administrator and funded social activities help to develop their clients independence and self-esteem, whilst relieving family pressures by providing much-needed respite and support away from the home. Click here to visit their website. Share Rural Projects Bradwell-on-Sea Community Shop Read more Many Essex villages present a picture of tranquillity which masks the poor access to services and isolation experienced by many rural people today. The shop means that families and older people have access to essential items without having to travel out of the village, and it provides a central community hub where groups can meet. Brian Main, chairman of Bradwell-on-Sea Community Shop Association said: “The grants have underpinned the entire shop refurbishment project to the benefit of the whole village, visitors and tourists.” Share Rural Projects Bradwell-on-Sea Flower and Dog show Read more The Flower and Dog show is more than the sum of its parts, with residents describing it as providing the ‘invisible glue’ that underpins the community. While the dog show and the flower show are the cornerstones of the event, the show is filled with a range of art stalls, craft workshops and more. It showcases local talent and brings people together in a celebration of what makes the town special. They say that the smallest towns have the biggest hearts, so no doubt the Flower and Dog show is the moral core of Bradwell on Sea. The event, eagerly anticipated, is a golden opportunity to educate and inspire the local residents. Share Disability Braintree District Mencap Society Read more We funded this programme, designed by the young adults themselves, which includes sessions on food hygiene, budgeting and bills, relationships and sexual health and keeping safe – all important skills when moving towards independent living. The development of these skills not only helps them to be more independent in everyday life, but builds decision making and assertiveness skills , as they will feel more confident when approaching social situations and feel more able to speak up for themselves. Share Children and Young People Braintree Youth Project Charity Read more Through their drop-in and focused group sessions, the charity provides a full range of activities, events and training that encourage young people to become more confident and build new friendships. Some of their activities include board and computer games, sports, cooking workshops, mountain climbing, abseiling, canoeing or river trekking. They also run awareness sessions on topics such as the dangers of drugs and alcohol. Our funding has supported the salary of their youth worker, who continues to arrange their programme of activities that will help the young people to better integrate into society and build a positive future for themselves. Share Fairness and Equality Bridgeway Mission Read more Most of us take for granted things like fresh, nostalgic food and casual conversations in a familiar language, but these things may be out of reach for asylum seekers. This can cause them to feel isolated and anxious, a cycle that Bridgeway is breaking. The project has been able to provide emergency meal parcels to those in need, and group cooking sessions. Thanks to a little help from us, Bridgeway were able to fund the sessions and the volunteers to help the participants to feel comfortable, get involved and create a truly supportive network. Share Disability Bright Lives Social Enterprise CIC Read more During the initial COVID-19 lockdown, when Bright Lives could not provide their usual in-person support, they used this time to refurbish their new headquarters in Colchester. We were pleased to support this renovation project and the new centre now hosts 100-175 members every week to enjoy arts, crafts, and music sessions. There is also a sensory room, a new kitchen and a lounge area. Share Children and Young People Brightview Farm Read more We supported the set up of the farm, which provides educational care and alternative programmes to vulnerable young people. Classes cover horticulture, conservation and more, which aim to improve independance and confidence. Land-based learning is both practical and accessible, providing a perfect opportunity for youth to get stuck in and realise their potential. Share Fairness and Equality British Red Cross Read more They offer emergency support and vital practical assistance that they need to live day to day including food, hygiene items, cash grants, clothes and nappies, together with assistance for their application to remain or appeal process. For people facing destitution and homelessness, this assistance not only allows them to survive, but also offers them a safe place to seek sanctuary, have comfort and be supported in a way that gives them privacy and dignity. Demand for support is high with the Essex service seeing around 50 people every week. We supported the travel costs for those attending the centre as they generally have no means to fund this themselves. Share Sport Brooklands FC Read more Offering a safe space that teaches football essentials is important to the club, which is, in turn, important to local children and their parents. Their coaches and volunteers, ensure that lessons are open to any child who is interested, regardless of gender or ability. This includes prospective players who may have special needs or disabilities, ensuring that everyone gets to experience the joy of team sports. The same principle extends into matters of financial hardship as kit is provided. The only caveat is that all participants must demonstrate good sportsmanship and be interested in improving the health of community spirit. Our grant has helped to support the club’s running costs so they can continue this work. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Broomfield Village Hall Charity Read more From lunch clubs, to coffee mornings, regular social activities are designed to reduce social isolation and foster a community spirit. The Village Hall Charity also owns allotments, which children from nearby forest schools use to further their education. We helped to fund many of these activities, including equipping a popular local men’s shed which provides an alternative social space outside of the main group activities. Share Education, Training and Advice Building Heroes Read more Their programme is open to service leavers, veterans, reservists and their families, and exists to create a smooth transition back into civilian life for those who have served. There are around120,000 veterans currently unemployed in the UK,, and Building Heroes welcomes them to learn construction skills, and help them to progress into regular or self-employment within the industry. The group tells us that applications for the programme are almost double the actual number of places they have available, but Building Heroes is dedicated to expanding. Our support is enabling them to run two 5-week courses at their centre in Colchester. Share Environment Bures Transition Group Read more There is a two-acre woodland and a community orchard in Bures where BTG works to improve the environment for the benefit of the local community. They run projects on recycling, food production, green energy and more. All of this alongside their tree planting work, which helps keeps the community engaged. With our help BTG were able to buy equipment to help keep the woodland clear and open for public access. Share Rural Projects Burnham U3A Archaeological Group Read more What started as an interesting crop mark spotted resulted in members digging and revealing the stone foundations of an early medieval building. Our grant towards the project meant that a senior archaeologist could come on site and teach people how to excavate and record properly, together with the equipment we need to do the job professionally. The site will be included in the Historic Environment Record and the entire excavation data will be available to all. Share Disability Butterflies Club Read more They also provide support to their parents or carers, and organise social events for their siblings. This helps them to build peer support networks with other families which experience the same situations and potential challenges of caring for a child with disabilities. We funded their artistic projects and events for the Queen’s Platinum Jubilee. Share Mental Health Butterfly Effect Wellbeing Read more Butterfly Effect Wellbeing was set up in 2019, and offers a variety of services for vulnerable people. These include a foodbank, lunch clubs, and other mental health resources. At their hub in Harlow, they believe that mental health is as important as physical health. They have been able to purchase supplies for their hub as well as provide personalised care and support for their visitors, thanks to funding from Harlow Recreation Trust. Butterfly Effect Wellbeing are providing a lifeline to those in need in their local area. Share Mental Health Cake Club Read more Parenting can be tough, as the founders of Cake Club know themselves, and that is why they created a safe space where people can meet their peers and have fun. Now, with ECF’s help, they can open more clubs to reach even more parents, with the goal of improving their mental well-being through increasing their social circle. This includes a playgroup which gives parents the freedom to socialise alongside their infants. Cake Club also partners with other local family groups, as part of the Essex Peer and Parent Network, so that new and expecting parents have support at every step of their journey. Share Disability Camp Jojo Read more They run weekend camps with a range of activities accessible to everyone, from bushcraft activities, foraging, beach time, tomahawk throwing, feeding farm animals, campfires, tai chi, fire lighting, and music. Parents are supported by trained volunteers, so they also experience some respite from their caring responsibilities, especially as there is specialist equipment to suit their child’s individual needs, such as larger tents, hoists, and all-terrain wheelchairs. A grant from us supported their running costs, helping to increase their capacity and keep the costs low for families. Share Environment CanalAbility Read more Their canal boats are fully accessible having been adapted with ramps, wheelchair lifts, hoists, wet rooms, and day beds, which enable everyone to get involved in the boating experience. Whether they spend it relaxing and watching the world go by, getting closer to nature, or helping to steer the boat or open locks, clients can get involved in every stage of the trip. Our funding helped them to repair and replace one of their boat’s engines, so that they can continue to provide families and young people with new experiences and a much needed escape from stresses of everyday life. Share Fairness and Equality Candles – North Essex Down Syndrome Support Group Read more The group organises activities, events, and specialist sessions to promote development, confidence, independence, and positive awareness in the community for children with Down Syndrome. They also provide access to training and advice for parents and carers, encourage sharing of information about personal experiences and provide useful resources for families. Funding from us towards their running costs has helped to develop their dance/sensory sessions, Makaton classes, sports activities including football and biking, stay-and-play sessions and family events. These help the children and their families to get active, make friends and thrive. Share Education, Training and Advice Castle Point Association of Voluntary Services (CAVS) Read more Most clients are referred by their local GP or other health agencies and the service adapts to the individual. People are matched based on common interests, location and need. Vicky Pilton, Senior Befriending Co-ordinator at CAVS, said: “Providing people with friendship and interesting conversation on a regular basis is something so simple, but it can have a huge impact on the overall wellbeing of individuals.” We awarded them a large grant over two years so they could expand their work and train extra volunteers to support more people living in Castle Point and Rochford. Share Fairness and Equality Castle Point Social Car Scheme Read more The organisation uses cars and minibuses to take people to health appointments, food shopping, or to visit friends, as well as organising group day trips to garden centers, public gardens, and historic buildings. Our funding towards their core costs has helped them to continue this service and has given their members more independence. They told us that during the year of this funding, they transported 15,000 passengers a total of over 80,000 miles. Share Community Safety Centre for Action on Rape and Abuse (CARA) Read more We contributed towards the cost of their counselling service for people living across mid and north Essex who have experienced sexual abuse or violence. This helps people to process what has happened, develop coping mechanisms to deal with the complex emotions and/or trauma reactions, and ultimately supports them in being able to move forward with their lives. Share Environment Chalkwell Lifeguards Read more While helping to keep beach visitors safe, they have also been able to develop a programme to teach young people the skills to become a lifeguard. They also provide a community hub for the public to drop in to take part in a range of activities including litter picking, first aid training and exercise sessions. With a grant from us they have bought a lightweight inflatable rescue boat and an inflatable lifeguard rescue board to further their rescue abilities. This will allow the public to continue to kayak, swim, and boat safely in the sea with the support of this equipment should they need assistance. Share Community Safety Changing Lives Community Services Read more David Simmons, Co-Director, said “Three years ago, I was threatened by a six-year-old with a knife. That situation made me realise more had to be done to reach young children and educate them about the consequences of carrying knives and being involved with gangs.” By using sport and other activities, they teach them about how to avoid anti-social behavior which could lead to a life of addiction and crime. Through being part of a team, setting personal goals, overcoming challenges and by attending regular workshops Changing Lives encourages children to think about the long-term consequences of their actions, what they want for their futures and what they can do to get there. Share Community Safety Changing Pathways Read more They offer both individual sessions and group support and provide a safe refuge for those in need of accommodation. The services are given out regardless of a person’s gender or circumstance, as Changing Pathways treat each person with respect and dignity. ECF have given grants to help expand the team at Changing Pathways, and to buy equipment for a food distribution programme to support those in need. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Chelmsford Community Radio Read more Their volunteer-led team showcase many local projects and advocate for the community. They broadcast a range of music for all tastes and are a fun group that listeners engage with, both on and off air. CCR also provide opportunities for people of all ages to learn about broadcasting with their radio and podcast workshops delivered at Anglia Ruskin. We have supported their running costs, so that they can continue broadcasting to Chelmsford and beyond. Share Housing and Homelessness CHESS Read more They house around 113 people and provide specialist trauma intervention when needed. We have supported various aspects of CHESS’s work including therapy sessions for clients to identify the root cause of their trauma and associated difficulties. CHESS then works with individuals to help them rebuild their lives and break the cycle of homelessness. Read how CHESS helped one their clients to turn his life around here. Share Community Safety Children Heard and Seen Read more With this funding, they have been able to set up an online service so that children can access support, and the same therapeutic interventions when circumstances prevent them from attending in person. By learning how to manage their emotions, and uncertainty, the children are supported to improve their self-confidence, gain interpersonal skills, and avoid falling into a spiral of intergenerational offending. The group have also developed a custom workbook for the children to track their progress and really commit the lessons to heart. Share Education, Training and Advice Christian Youth Outreach (CYO) Read more Our funding helped them to continue this work and provide informative, engaging and creative workshops for Year 6 Pupils to help prepare for their teenage years. These sessions focused on making and maintaining positive friendships, overcoming peer pressure, and having good mental health. These were the main concerns of local parents and helps to instills confidence in the young people as they approach secondary school age. This will help them to feel more comfortable making friends and to know how to identify toxic relationships, ultimately promoting their independence and reducing the anxiety they may feel about progressing onto the next stage of their education. Share Children and Young People Churches Together in Myland Read more The project, which is based at the Mile End Methodist Church, also offers a range of free activities, including crafts, outdoor games and face painting. We awarded them a grant for a much-needed new oven. Lynsey Heslegrave, who runs the lunch club, said: “We desperately needed a larger and more efficient oven to help meet a growing demand. When we first started providing meals in 2017, we had around 10 to 15 people attending the lunches. This past Summer we had 40 people through our doors every week.” Share Education, Training and Advice Citizens Advice Bureau – Southend on Sea Read more There is no issue too small to reach out for and CAB offer insights and signposting on issues including debt, benefits, immigration and legal help. With a grant from us, they have been able to continue offering a broad range of essential support sessions for local residents, and more face-to-face visits are available as part of this growing service. As the first port of call for members of the community who are in need, CAB are a sympathetic organisation focused on matching clients with solutions through patience and determination. It is hard to put a price on good advice. Share Education, Training and Advice Citizens Advice Epping Forest District Read more To help tackle this issue locally, they launched a financial and mental health well-being programme. Following its success, we awarded them funding to extend the pilot into a 12-month project. The project aims to tackle the clear links between poor financial well-being and poor mental health by providing a community hub service that delivers financial advice, mental health support and help to access employment opportunities. This well-rounded approach means people who are struggling to cope are supported holistically and have solutions that will provide lasting change. Share Fairness and Equality Clacton Pride Read more They offer social activities all year round and they now have 30 teams joining their monthly pub quizzes. Their activities aim to foster inclusion, reduce the isolation and exclusion that people from the community experience, and celebrate equality and diversity in the area. A grant from us has enabled the group to hire a dedicated space to hold their regular social events and activities. Share Fairness and Equality Clacton-on-Sea FoodCycle Read more Fruit and vegetables are donated from local businesses and supermarkets, and the FoodCycle team of volunteers create a three-course meal every Monday lunchtime at Trinity Methodist Church. Guests who attend the weekly meal are elderly, have a low income or are without a home and facing mental health issues. Sitting down for a meal, which is prepared by local people, helps them to feel involved in the community. We awarded them funding to help feed even more people in the Tendring area, expand their outreach programme and raise awareness of food poverty. Share Education, Training and Advice Clothing Clinic Textile Collective Read more The se sessions offer local people the ability to re-use donated fabrics and learn textile techniques . This includes using spec ialist machinery and tools, while being guided by volunteers. Clients work together and help each other to create and mend clothing, which has created a socially inclusive and relaxed environment where people can build friendships, and feel less lonely. A grant from us supported their running costs and has helped them expand their service to schools and to people who are home bound, as well as expanding the types of textile workshops they offer. Share Sport Coach Core Read more We provided them with funding to continue their sports apprenticeship programme in Essex, which aims to equip young people with the skills, confidence and knowledge to gain employment. Alongside tangible work experience, they also undertake certificates in Maths and English that gives them every chance of success once the programme finishes. Many of the apprentices are offered full-time work by their employers at the end of their course, and 92% of all apprentices are in work or education 6 months after graduating. Share Children and Young People Colchester & Tendring Youth Enquiry Service (YES) Read more They provide opportunities through volunteering, mentoring, arts and crafts and gardening/open space projects to help build confidence and skills. We supported their school navigator role, working in partnership with local secondary schools, giving young people a point of contact if they need to talk to someone about their feelings. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Colchester Chinese Culture Society Read more With a grant from us, and in celebration of Queen Elizabeth II’s Platinum Jubilee, they ran a range of events to promote cultural diversity across Tendring. Through sharing traditional food, music, dancing and art , the local community had the opportunity to experience various cultures that live within the area, promoting community cohesion and providing a better understanding of particularly the Chinese culture . Some of the groups involv ed included people from Pakistani, Nepalese, Bangladeshi, Syrian, African, and Chinese backgrounds. Share Fairness and Equality Colchester Foodbank Read more By offering meals to those in need and signposting them to further support, they are a keystone in the communities of Colchester and Brightlingsea. We helped support the cost of storing and delivering their donations, so that the group can focus on helping more people and continue their efforts in reducing avoidable hunger. Share Disability Colchester Gateway Clubs Read more They do this through their social clubs which provide leisure activities and a safe place to have fun and make friends, and an advocacy service where they help clients at a critical point in their lives. Our support is helping them to grow their advocacy service so that they can help people who may be struggling to cope for many reasons, including the death of the main carer or elderly parent, health related difficulties and finance or housing related issues. In all cases they work through the immediate impact of the crisis with the client, providing them with support and help to achieve the best possible outcome. Share Mental Health Colchester Samaritans Read more Trained Samaritans volunteers offer support through group talks, 1:1 sessions and drop-in workshops. They also have a telephone and online chat service which provide people space to talk about their mental health challenges. Samaritans use an evidence based approach and form lasting links within the community to build trust. We supported their core costs to continue this much needed work. Share Older communities Communi-tea Circle Read more Communi-tea is a club exclusively for those over 70 years of age. By providing both a venue to gather at, and transport, Communi-tea enables all club-goers to meet regularly and enjoy socialising. We helped the group to stay open and offer more lunches for their members living in Upminster. Whether it’s a Sunday lunch or a dinner somewhere local, each outing is a chance to reduce social isolation and foster friendships. Share Fairness and Equality Communities and Sanctuary-seekers Together (CAST) Read more CAST are the glue between asylum-seekers and local communities, helping to integrate refugees that are struggling and smoothing the transition into the next stage of life. They also provide friendship projects that build relationships, signposting through the benefits process and other services. Our support enabled them to run a return to work and life skills programme to prepare participants for move on and independent living in the community. Share Housing and Homelessness Cool to be Kind Read more Their service works closely with other local organisations working in the area to support vulnerable people that are living on the street. They provide rucksacks, tents, sleeping bags, clothes and other items, while lobbying for change. We have funded the setup of their digital platform that outlines and signposts members of the public to services that need/take donations, or volunteer opportunities to support the homeless community. This website also enables rough sleepers to immediately identify where they can access local support services such as food banks, advice services or financial help. It also promotes coordination between local groups that support people who are homeless. Share Mental Health Cradle Charity Read more By working across 3 hospitals within Mid and South Essex, the charity is able to provide hospital comfort bags, peer support and a wide range of different therapies for those experiencing a loss. Our grant meant they could fast-track specialist counselling for bereaved parents in Chelmsford, Basildon, and Southend. This helps to reduces their anxiety and post-natal trauma by providing a safe space for bereaved parents to share their grief or find comfort in the words of others. Share Mental Health Crossroads Braintree and Chelmsford Ltd Read more We supported their sitting service, which enables carers to have some time to themselves, improving their mental health, while the person they care for is also able to enjoy social time with the sitter at home, or go out for a trip with them. Share Sport Crouch Kayak Club Read more As an amateur sports club, it offers a safe environment for all abilities to try kayaking. There are weekly sessions which can include training on inland waterways or on the open sea for the more adventurous. The club is committed to equity in sport, and welcomes all-comers irrespective of age, ability, sex or nationality. Our grant enabled the club to buy more boats and safety equipment so they can continue sharing their passion for water sports with even more people. Share Sport Dance Network Association Read more These sessions are for families, early years, primary schools, secondary school students, young people, older adults, and for people with conditions such as dementia or Parkinson’s. Learning routines and getting active during the sessions gives people the opportunity to improve their self-confidence and physical well-being, develop their creativity and independent thinking, and gives them social interaction in a fun environment. A grant from us helped to provide a social dance programme for older adults, and those living with dementia and Parkinson’s disease together with their families. They were able to deliver 120 classes, both in person and online, to over 900 people. Share Environment Daws Hall Trust Read more Daws Hall believe that connecting people with nature and the local landscape from a young age is an essential part of improving their education, supporting their health and wellbeing and inspiring future stewardship of the natural world. Our support means they can continue to maintain the site for future generations of children to learn from and enjoy. Share Older communities Dengie D-Cafe Read more The group aims to improve the quality of life for people living with dementia, which they do by offering support to carers and families. They offer group meetings every month where members can enjoy a wide range of activities including arts & crafts, dancing, singing, games, and group conversations. A grant from ECF helped to keep these sessions running, allowing the Café members to continue to improve their concentration, self-confidence, and mobility, all in a safe environment. Share Environment Dig It Community Allotment Read more It is a valuable source of social interaction where members can form friendships, feel less isolated, and improve their mental well-being. The charity provides environmental therapy and has counsellors on hand to support people who have mental health conditions. We awarded them funding to cover various running costs include the transport fees of their elderly volunteers and the salaries of the counsellors. Share Sport Disability4Sport C.I.C Read more The organisation works directly with their members and the local community to build their sport programmes, inspiring people to join. Their members not only gain new life skills, but also develop a support network with the others that take part, as well as the staff. Our funding has helped to cover staff salaries so they can focus on developing their sessions and to build long-term rapport with all those taking part. Share Fairness and Equality DNA Networks Read more A Church network, DNA Networks has a variety of services on offer to help people including, employment support, alleviating the cost of school uniforms, and learning English to help refugees settle into their new community. We supported an English course project where learners can attend online lessons for as long as they need. The waiting lists for these programmes continues to grow, but DNA has set themselves the mission of providing them, aiding their community and combatting hardship for as long as there are people that need them. Share Rural Projects Doddinghurst Wellbeing Hub Read more More than 50 volunteers work together at the Hub to support the vulnerable, the elderly, those experiencing financial hardship, those newly widowed, and people experiencing mental health illnesses. Their work includes food and medicine deliveries, a friendship scheme for those who are lonely, a small foodbank for emergency support and outdoor social sessions to bring people together involving crafts and quizzes. Our funding helped them to provide subsidised hot lunches for people in the village. Share Community Safety East Tilbury Defib Project Read more Originating in Tilbury, and with hopes of expanding their watchful eye across Thurrock, the group is working hard to replace the area’s outdated, damaged and unusable AEDs so that they are available to use when the need arises. They will also be delivering training classes alongside this project. Futureproofing is the best treatment, and thanks to a grant from us, these essential tools are now more accessible for the local community. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Elevator Arts Read more They work with young people who experience barriers to learning due to reasons including but not restricted to, ethnicity, religion, sexuality, gender or disability. They are immersed in the whole process including storytelling, drama, movement, soundscape, puppetry, and visual theatre. Our funding helped the group to organise workshops and a special show with young people who speak English as an additional language. The project was driven by the young people themselves, where they learnt new creative skills through the support of professional artists to devise and create the performance based on their own ideas, research, and personal stories. Share Older communities Empire Theatre Trust Read more The Choir is open to anyone who is keen or interested in getting involved with singing that is either living with dementia or supporting anyone living with it. Their choir is a safe place for those living with dementia to socialise and reduce loneliness and isolation. Not only that, but it is also a safe and inclusive space for those with autism and other learning difficulties too. The sessions were funded by ECF so that members can enjoy socialising and singing without fear of judgement and knowing they are among friends. A million people in the UK are expected to be living with dementia by 2025. While there is no cure, there’s growing evidence that music can help related symptoms such as depression and agitation, while bringing some much-needed moments of joy. Share Mental Health Ending Life’s Taboo Read more They offer home visits and phone calls in person or online, enabling patients and their families to have rapid access to emotional support. ELT offers a safe and confidential space where the emotions around terminal illness can be shared openly, and the pace of the work is entirely set by the patient. This group helps people with care and compassion, and ECF is pleased to fund their outreach. ELT also works with family groups to help them cope, and provides links to support workers. They also support people affected by a life-limiting diagnosis to continue living their limited time, rather than focusing on the end of their life. Share Fairness and Equality English for Women Read more By running language and reading classes to suit all abilities, volunteers help learners to develop their skills so they can access vital services, build a support network, and prepare to apply for jobs or further education. Over 100 women take part from 30 different nationalities. The volunteers also offer a free supervised play area for children, so mums can focus on learning. They also run separate sessions for men Share Education, Training and Advice Enterprise East Group CIC Read more Whether it is through disability, homelessness, or other issues, Enterprise East runs a series of workshops to train people to work in the hospitality sector. The group provides bespoke employment support, multi-generational training workshops, and on-the-job learning at placements in one of their cafes in Saffron Walden. The cafes cater for all members of the community as well as charities, including dementia support networks and chair yoga initiatives. We helped to ensure that the cafes and diners can continue to provide a service to the local community and allow the young people to grow their skills. Share Rural Projects Epping Forest & Harlow Community Transport Read more Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic their fleet of 18 mini-buses made around 8,000 door-to-door service journeys each month, but they had to adapt their offering in March 2020 when the country went into lockdown. Angela Canham, manager of EHCT, said: “Although we were unable to operate as usual, we knew that our clients still needed our support. “We applied for a grant from Essex Community Foundation and were awarded funding which meant we could buy the equipment needed for some of our team to work from home. “They made daily calls to our housebound passengers to provide them with some reassurance that they weren’t alone and help prevent them from feeling isolated. “We also made trips to St Margaret’s Hospital in Epping and worked with NHS Princess Alexander Hospital in Harlow to deliver medications to patients who had gone home after being treated for Coronavirus or those with serious underlying heath conditions who needed to self-isolate. “The funding we received also meant that we could add safety screens in our mini-buses for when restrictions eased.” Share Fairness and Equality Epping Forest Foodbank Read more They work with over 100 frontline organisations such as schools, GPs, and the local Citizens Advice to receive referrals, and have the support of around 130 volunteers weekly who manage the Foodbank, as well as their Food in School Holidays programme to feed children when they aren’t receiving meals at school. A grant from us has contributed towards the running costs of the Foodbank to match the rising demand for the services, which in 2022 alone supported more than 5,000 people. Share Education, Training and Advice esSENtial SEND consultancy Read more Together, they bridge the gap between home and school, ensuring that families are able to access the support that they need, when they need it. The group’s purpose is to promote and support positive emotional well-being and mental health of children, young people and their families. This help reduces the risk of them potentially offending in the future. We helped them to run a dance project that addressed anti-social behaviour and self esteem for junior school children. Share Education, Training and Advice Essex Agricultural Society Read more We supported the popular Food and Farming Day, an annual educational event held at Writtle College. Around 3,000 Essex school children attend and learn about food, farming, the environment and agricultural industry. Share Rural Projects Essex Blind Charity Read more Limited public transport and facilities in rural areas means that many visually impaired people find it difficult to access the support they need. We helped Essex Blind Charity to buy a mobile sight bus which travels to remote villages around Essex and provides local residents with access to the same services that are offered in larger towns. As well as offering practical demonstrations of specialist equipment, they ensure people are made aware of other services that are available to help them. Share Community Safety Essex Boys’ and Girls’ Clubs Read more Their Essex youth group is part of a wider UK network that runs a range of activities to enhance the skills, confidence, and employability of young people. One area of their work is giving young people something positive to do with their spare time outside of education so they are less likely to get involved in anti-social behaviour. We funded a project based at their outdoor adventure centre in Colchester, providing outdoor activity days for year 9 students that are struggling at school. This helps them to gain a sense of achievement while developing different coping strategies to manage in their everyday lives. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Essex Concert Orchestra Read more A small grant from us will cover the costs of ECO supporting the South Essex Youth Symphony Orchestra (SEYSO) in delivering a course which will culminate in a Christmas performance. ECO works closely with SEYSO which provides orchestral training for young musicians through a series of workshop days and concerts. These courses then reach crescendo in a public performance. These events, and other performances held throughout the year, are an essential part of the Essex Concert Orchestra and the South Essex Youth Orchestra’s aim to nurture and support the talent of young musicians in Essex. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Essex Cultural Diversity Project Read more They are based in Chelmsford and work across the county. Among the organisations we have supported through working with them are Essex Multicultural Activities Network, African Families in the UK and Colchester Chinese Culture Society. Our grants helped them to host social events that celebrate culture and heritage, provide online support during lockdown and keep families safe by ensuring that important health messages and changes to government guidance are understood. Share Older communities Essex Dementia Care Read more Their personalised support plans are built around a person’s familiar and valued activities and are designed to maintain independence. Trained practitioners encourage the return of lost skills and offer the opportunity to discover new ones. The main aim is to keep families living together for as long as possible with fewer hospital visits. We supported the cost of employing a one-to-one dementia practitioner who visits families in their homes. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Essex Multicultural Activities Network Read more They used their funding to organise a wide range of group activities including cultural cooking and silk painting. Part of their work has been to support Afghan refugees settle into the local community. They also run English language classes in Chelmsford, with specific classes for women living in Essex. They pair women up with other women who are experiencing the same difficulties with the language as them, which helps to reduce feelings of loneliness and develop their abilities. Share Community Safety Essex Search and Rescue Read more ESAR are funded entirely by donations and their members are volunteers. They are available for searches any time of the day or night, helping to keep members of the community safe. We have helped them with funding to buy equipment, allowing them to help more people. Share Community Safety Essex Voluntary Blood Service Read more In 2022 they were able to make over 8,100 deliveries to help patients in need. Alongside hospitals, they also work with milk banks and neonatal units to deliver donated breastmilk to babies across Essex. A grant from us supported their running costs and provided additional equipment for volunteers. This has allowed another of their transport blood bikes to get back on the road, which is ultimately saving more lives. Share Education, Training and Advice Every Child Online Read more Based in Basildon, Every Child Online focuses on helping vulnerable children get access to computers and laptops, so that they learn technological literacy as well as other essential modern skills. By refurbishing donated laptops, they give new purpose to old tech and work to ensure all children have access to online learning. Our funding supported the on-going costs of providing this service and helping them to reach more children. Share Sport Evolving Community Read more Evolving Community is responding to this issue, and their goal is as simple – to make a tangible difference to the lives of young people. We supported one of their projects in Thurrock, which offered weekly sports sessions for young people to engage in physical activity in the outdoors, where they could make friends and build confidence. It may sound like a small project, but to hear the organisers and participants describe it, the sessions are truly transformative. Share Children and Young People Extra Support for Families Read more Our funding is helping them to share parenting skills that will reduce conflict in the home and improve family relationships. They help parents and carers of children from pre-birth to age 25 (where there are additional needs). EXTRA also runs informal workshops, such as messy play and coffee mornings where parents and carers can build up relationships with staff and find out about the formal support on offer whilst in a relaxed, fun setting. Share Disability Families InFocus (Essex) Read more Their family support project provides information, advice, and guidance to families who need help . This includes assistance with completing complex forms for disability-related benefits, support with the transition to adulthood social care, or accessing education al support . Th ey work closely with families to provide tailor ed support . They also provide a weekly family activity club, siblings support group, and run regular coffee mornings. A grant from us has supported the continuation of th is work to help families cope better with day-to-day issues, feel more positive, and more resilient. Share Mental Health FC Villomah Read more Starting in 2021, members of FC Villomah come together through a shared love of football and formed an amateur club. Based in Basildon, the club acts as both a social space and physical hobby to help manage their grief. Through the game, as well as their mental health support services, families are able to commune and share experiences together, this includes an online support network which offers virtual and remote support when needed. We have helped them to cover the costs of hiring the pitch where they play and bring together their 55 members to support one another. Share Environment Fellowship Afloat Charitable Trust Read more Their centre, which is a converted ship, provides an ideal environment for youth clubs, schools, churches, and groups with additional needs to visit and enjoy the water. They offer a wide range of activities including sailing, kayaking, rowing, power boating, dredging, climbing, archery, and high ropes. These help to build self-confidence, form new friendships, have fun, and develop team building skills. A grant from us helped them to replace the engines of their safety boats which are used when a group of young people are sailing or boating. Share Disability Ferriers Barn Read more The Barn is a place where its members can feel safe, learn new skills and have fun. They can make new friends and feel part of a larger community, feel valued and important. It also provides essential respite to families and carers, supporting their mental health and wellbeing. We have awarded them funding to undertake vital roof repairs and towards their core running costs. Share Education, Training and Advice First Stop Centre Read more The organisation takes a non-judgmental approach to improving lives of the local community by offering educational classes, life skills and training to help people deal with their emotions, seek counselling, benefit and job-seekers advice, as well as a befriending services. We provided them with a grant towards their staff costs so they could increase the capacity of their work and meet demand from a growing number of people that want to make positive changes in their lives. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Firstsite Read more Their projects encourage individuals to extend their learning and build confidence which contributes to their overall health and wellbeing. We funded a project exploring what ‘Britishness’ means, where over 1,000 children and young people explored issues of identity, citizenship and what it means to be British, by creating mixed media artwork for an exhibition. Share Mental Health Flexfit Yoga Read more Flexfit Yoga are improving mental and physical wellbeing in Tendring and Colchester by providing yoga, chair yoga and other fitness activities to local residents. All sessions are specifically designed to be accessible and inclusive for individuals who are elderly, have mobility concerns, or have neurological conditions. These classes improve not only physical health, but mental health as the social elements benefit every member. Share Children and Young People Foundry First Steps Read more Foundry First Steps was born when parents in Manningtree felt that there should be more casual playgroups in the area for babies, toddlers and parents to socialise. The group runs drop-in sessions and a playgroup. Refreshments are provided and singalongs for anyone willing to join in. They also have their own baby-care centred foodbank for those needing some extra help. With our support they have been able to buy some new toys and crafting materials for the children. Share Education, Training and Advice Free Representation Unit Read more Since 1972 the group have been standing in defence of those who cannot afford or do not qualify for legal aid. FRU are committed to pushing through barriers of literacy, time and money so that no one faces a courtroom unprepared. Through the combined efforts of volunteers, trainees and law students, FRU stands alongside defendants in employment and social security tribunals, and we were able to fund this great service through one of our grants. Share Environment Friends of Dagnam Park Read more By clearing foliage, maintaining the pathways, and organising regular rubbish clearing, FODP enable people to visit the park safely. They also host tours around the reserve to educate visitors on the archaeological and environmental background of the park. With our support, they have been able to plant trees which will encourage a wider range of bird species to nest, and hopefully inspire more people to get out and enjoy the fresh air. Share Disability Friends of Dolphin Court Read more Thanks to a grant, the charity has purchased a beach wheelchair to be used by the care homes residents. This specialised wheelchair has large wheels that can easily travel over sand, and are waterproof so it can dip into the sea. It means everyone can enjoy the beach with friends and family, increasing their happiness and levels of independence. Share Fairness and Equality Girls Empowerment Initiative Read more Based in Basildon, they are supporting women across Essex to achieve beyond the limits imposed by harmful beliefs and attitudes. They provide education on a range of issues through their empowerment workshops and offer one-to-one support for girls who want to bolster their resilience. They proudly state, “we put Space, Voice and Choice for girls at the centre of everything we do.” A grant from us is enabling them to inspire and raise up so many young girls. Whether they just need a safe space where they can be heard, or a passionate champion to advocate for them in tough times, Girl’s Empowerment is reaching out with both hands to women who need support. Share Mental Health Gold Geese Read more Their tailored support ranges from therapy, food shop vouchers, toys and gifts, weekend trips away and practical help with travel to and from hospitals, as well as bereavement support. They also raise awareness of childhood cancer signs and symptoms, including delivering training workshops to childcare practitioners and parents. A grant from us has helped to cover therapy costs which gives families coping strategies and a space to explore difficult feelings over the course of their child’s treatment. Share Older communities Golden-Oldies Read more They received a funding boost to run further sessions across the county, helping to relieve feelings of isolation for older people who may be living alone, as well as residents in sheltered housing accommodation. The sessions are great fun and contribute to overall health and well being. Share Children and Young People Grant A Smile Read more They can go into the family home and help with chores, including cleaning, washing, ironing and gardening. This sort of support has a magical effect, as once the house is in order it allows families to have less stressful lives and spend more vital time together, without the worry of all the jobs that need to be done. As well as giving practical support in the home one of their volunteers, a mental health specialist and a life coach, gives psychological support. We awarded them a grant during the coronavirus pandemic as they were inundated with requests for help and their 36 volunteers had to distribute food parcels to those that needed to sheild. Share Disability Grapevine Essex Read more Their varied outings, activities, and trips during the Easter, Summer, and Christmas holidays run alongside weekly clubs which gives 130 members the opportunity to relax with friends, learn new skills, and enjoy different experiences in a safe environment. They enjoy activities such as bingo, arts and crafts, bowling, dance, as well as hearing from guest speakers. Our grant supported their running costs, to allow them to develop their residential trips, which gives their members the opportunity to live independently for a short stay, providing them with the tools to lead an active and busy life, and feel more confident within the wider community. Share Education, Training and Advice Greener Growth Read more Their activities provide the community with new skills, promote healthy living, and help people develop their resilience and confidence through nature. We awarded the group funding towards the development of raised allotment beds at Stour Valley Community College and Primary School. While the children will learn about growing fresh organic seasonal produce, they will also be able to work with other community members to offer free meals to people who need them. Share Older communities Halstead Day Centre Read more The Centre provides care as well as stimulating and therapeutic activities including seated chair exercise classes, music classes, and group quizzes. The Centre has been funded to continue providing a transport service for their clients, which is a unique service in the area. This empowers people to remain integrated in their community, accessing vital services and socialising. Share Disability Hamelin Trust Read more They help their clients to develop life skills and find independence, gain employment, take part in community activities, and provide residential care and respite to support their families. Hamelin Trust have expanded their work to help Ukrainian refugees and migrants who are disabled, as they arrived in Essex following the war in Ukraine. A grant from us has supported this project. Andy Archer, from Hamelin, said “One of the key difficulties for disabled Ukrainian refugees and migrants is finding specially adapted homes and access to appropriate services. ECF’s grant helped us to increase our capacity to ensure these families received full wrap-around support and helped them settle and integrate into their local community.” Share Disability Happy Hill Essex Read more Their play and holiday clubs provide respite care for families, and a wonderful opportunity for the children and young people to socialise and have fun. Some of these activities include going to the park, cooking, arts and crafts, swimming, and family days out. We contributed towards the salary of a key worker to support the children on a one-to-one basis at their Saturday and Holiday Clubs, giving the children the best opportunity to thrive. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Harlow Hindu Society Read more Upholding multi-racial community ideals remains at the heart of the society’s ethos, as well as opposing discrimination in all forms. They are both a safe space, and a centre for learning about the Hindu faith. Our support has helped them to run social events that introduce people to important dates within the Hindu calendar. These are chances to showcase a different culture, while also encouraging both religious and secular people to socialise and break down barriers. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Harlow Steelband Read more Harlow Steelband was founded in 2004 with the support of Harlow Council to offer completely free weekly steel pan classes to young people aged 11 and over within the town and surrounding areas. The band is run by a group of volunteer trustees who help learners to build their confidence alongside other performers. They learn a brand new skill in a group with other young people from diverse backgrounds, and then perform together at various local events. Share Environment Harlow Wombles Read more Harlow Wombles are keen environmentalists who dedicate their time to an array of projects keeping their local area clean, accessible and a pleasant place to live. The Wombles report fly-tipping, abandoned vehicles, and help connect people with nature. Local young people are recruited as ‘junior wombles’ and can earn certificates recognising how they have contributed to the improvement of local streets and cycle paths. We supported the Harlow Wombles in obtaining better tools for their important litter picking work. Share Disability Harwich Connexions Read more It offers group travel service enables local residents to access medical appointments, go food shopping, to see friends, and to get to work. Over the past 19 years the service has grown to a fleet of seven minibuses and now a regular service to Colchester Hospital has been established thanks to a grant we awarded of £10,000. Share Environment Havering Green Streets Read more Their mission is to encourage both wildlife and people into local greenspaces. They do this by tidying the spaces, removing litter and planting flowers. In one of their urban meadows, there are signs which encourage the public to sit, enjoy the space and take part in the effort of keeping it clean. An ECF grant has supported this work, and Havering Green Streets are working to improve green sustainability. Share Mental Health HBBS Counselling Read more Their confidential counselling service is for local adults, young people and children and is offered at significantly subsidised rates, which is what our funding supports. These sessions gradually enable their clients to feel more confident in dealing with their emotions and can start to look to the future. In recent years they have diversified their work in response to the needs of local people and now offer generic counselling to support people with a wide range of issues as well as support in response to a traumatic incident. Share Mental Health Heads2minds Read more They aim to increase understanding about mental health disorders, and provide mental health first aid training and therapies across Essex. A grant from us supported the cost of their pet assisted therapy at primary schools in Colchester to help young people who are struggling with their mental health. They offer both one-to-one and group sessions and provide the children with mental and physical tools to help with a variety of issues such as anxiety, depression, stress management, eating disorders, and trauma. Share Disability Headway Essex Read more The organisation provides practical information, activities, and emotional support to over 500 adults and their families, helping them to adjust to the effects of their injury, and provide them with opportunities to thrive and build a strong support network. A grant from us assisted their development of a new day centre to expand their programme of support and provide a safe environment for users to improve their self-esteem, confidence, fitness, cognitive ability and build life-skills. This enables them to make the best recovery possible and encourages their independence. Share Disability Hearing Help Essex Read more Their staff and volunteers visit public venues across Essex to deliver support sessions, provide home visits for people who cannot easily visit them , and host information stands. Another key area of their work is a support service for people who have deaf ness . They do this by working alongside local health and social care providers , as well as delivering training and talks to community groups and other organisations. Working directly with those experiencing hearing loss, they provide encouragement and support, particularly when it comes to persevering with a hearing aid, or fitting a new mould. This reduces isolation and miscommunication felt by this community of people while building their confidence and adapted life skills. Share Older communities Highlands Methodist Church Read more As a result of the cost-of-living crisis and the isolation felt by many older people, they launched a monthly lunch club where members could socialise and have a hot meal. With a grant from us, they have been able to extend the lunch club over the winter months and develop their programme of social opportunities. Share Mental Health Home-Start Colchester, Jaywick and Clacton Read more We gave the organisation a grant to support families that have expressed they are struggling to cope after the COVID-19 pandemic, through their pilot programme Time4YOU. This programme offers fully funded counselling sessions and parent support groups, to create a space for families to talk about their feelings and help to develop plans to make positive changes. This holistic approach enables the families to feel supported, reduce isolation and improves their mental well-being. This also strengthens the relationship between parent and child, supporting them to thrive as a family. Share Mental Health Home-Start Essex Read more Their ‘Moving on up Together’ weekly group primarily supports children, young people and their families, however their work also supports parents who may be socially isolated, struggling with low self-esteem or mental health issues. Volunteers provide a free crèche so parents can have a private and confidential group discussion around the issues and any anxieties they are struggling with. A grant from us enabled them to develop school readiness packs for children and provide online support to families isolated in their homes during the COVID-19 pandemic. Share Children and Young People Home-Start Harwich Read more With the funding they received, Home-Start Harwich started a parent and baby group, to particularly support the parents of babies born during the COVID-19 pandemic, and therefore missed out on social interactions. These group sessions give parents the opportunity to meet other new parents and receive focused support, while their babies explore and play in a safe environment with activities to stimulate them. Sharing parenting tales also helps to increase the parents’ knowledge, confidence and builds a support network. Share Housing and Homelessness Homeless Action Resource Project (HARP) Read more They support over 1,200 people on average every year and are always looking at new ways to help people get off the streets and stay off the streets. In addition to providing overnight accommodation for clients, HARP offers a range of services through their Bradbury day centre, including a café, showers, a medical centre, advice and support, clean clothes and a laundry service. We have been pleased to support various aspects of HARP’s work, including a support group for homeless people suffering with mental health issues. Share Mental Health Ideas Hub Chelmsford Read more They provide activities to bring local people together, helping to alleviate loneliness and improve mental well-being. This includes a befriending café and arts and crafts sessions. Their advice and support service helps people with legal issues, referring them on to other agencies when necessary. They also have a free meeting space that residents, small community groups and organisations can use. They received funding towards their rental costs. Share Community Safety Inclusion Ventures Read more One of their most popular programmes is cookery sessions, which include a breakfast club for school children. There is also a night café which gives young people a safe place to socialise and their stay-and-play toddler group is very popular. ECF has helped fund these projects, so that Inclusion Ventures can focus on their work in the community.Inclusion Ventures also manages a bike kitchen, which is a hub for teaching people how to maintain bikes, which can then be used on family outings or as an inexpensive way to travel. Share Education, Training and Advice Integration Support Services Read more Their work includes family support groups to help alleviate any feelings of isolation, English language classes for all ages, and drop-in help sessions. This not only increases the confidence of their beneficiaries by helping them to access employment and social opportunities, but also brings people together to embrace and celebrate diversity. Share Education, Training and Advice InterAct Chelmsford Read more Their wide range of community services , g roup sessions, and training help s people to feel empowered, increase their confidence, and achieve a long-term difference in their quality of life. A grant from us supported the salary of an outreach worker to increase the activ iti es provided for the SEND community . Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Jaywick Community Resources Centre Read more Local groups use the space to meet, support each other and run a selection of events. For residents needing childcare there is a toddler group and for those looking to socialise, there is a bingo club and dance classes. The Centre is at the heart of its community and our support helped them to cover their running costs and keep supporting local residents. Share Sport Just Ride Read more Their regular drop-in inclusive cycling sessions attract up to 100 people a week and young adults from schools and colleges and wheelchair users from day care centres are among the people who benefit. Our funds enabled them to buy a specially adapted bike to give wheelchair users the chance to enjoy the freedom and exhilaration of cycling that they might otherwise not be able to experience. Share Community Safety Justice and Care Read more Partnered with Essex Police, they identify at risk communities, or individuals to put in measures to remove them from exploitation. We funded the salary of their Essex-based victim navigator who provides a trusted and consistent contact for those requiring specialist advice and a clear, holistic plan for the future, to enable them to access any benefits, legal advice, and medical care that they will need. They tell us that the victim navigator is often the first person that victims begin to feel safe around and this helps to give them a voice they did not have before. Share Community Safety Kaos Youth Club Read more The semi-rural location means young people can often struggle to find things to do and the activities the club provides not only keeps them busy and avoiding falling into anti-social behaviour, but it helps the young people to develop their social skills, team spirit and self-esteem. The youth club offers a wide range of sporting activities to boost the young people’s physical health and provide confidential advice and support to anyone who may be struggling in their personal lives. We contributed to the club’s running costs, which has enabled them to expand their activities, as well as maintaining staff hours and the important connections they have with the families of the young people. Share Community Safety Keep It 100 Youth Read more Run wholly by volunteers, the group offers workshops that help young people avoid getting involved with knife crime. The places are available to young people who are carers, those excluded from school or have learning disabilities. We were able to give support to help facilitate these workshops and maintain a website which acts as a central resource for young people, who can find online help and information about safety. Share Children and Young People Kids Inspire Read more We have funded Kids Inspire multiple times since their founding in 2007, supporting the charity in delivering proactive intervention and support strategies for mental health problems. Their programme helps children, young people, and their families overcome obstacles and reach their full potential. Kids Inspire also promotes early recognition of mental health concerns through workshops, training, events, and resources for schools and community groups, encouraging early access to support. Their support programs build resilience and coping skills in children and young people through trauma-informed creative therapies and mentoring services. By involving parents, caregivers, and key stakeholders, Kids Inspire ensures comprehensive support, fostering long-term resilience and positive relationships within the community. Share Rural Projects Knightswood Care Read more Some of the activities organised within the centre include seated exercise classes, singing and dancing, board games and flower arranging. Knightswood Care also manage a ‘Lend A Hand’ Service for those individuals in the community who may need help with shopping, appointments, companionship or light housework. We funded their outreach service, including replacement of their minibus which is vital for bringing people to the centre. Share Mental Health Kool Carers Read more We funded their counselling service, which gives the young carers and their families the opportunity to express how they are feeling in a safe and supportive environment. Alongside this, they run a group of workshops to enhance the young carers understanding of what good physical and mental health is. These help to improve the well-being of the young carers and build on their emotional resilience. By attending these fun and informative sessions, the young people get to have some relief from their caring responsibilities, and form friendships with a network of other young carers who understand their lives. Share Education, Training and Advice Lads Need Dads Read more LND train schools and the community on being “absent father aware”. They raise awareness through research about early intervention, as well as offering practical life skills training and educational workshops. By fostering resilience, self-esteem, and community involvement, LND helps boys navigate challenges and reach their full potential. Our funding supported their Reading Mentor Programme. Share Rural Projects Lamarsh Lion Community Pub Read more Community run shops and pubs are becoming increasingly popular because local people recognise the value they bring. So, when the Lamarsh Lion pub closed its doors for the last time and was put up for sale, residents knew it was time to act. A committee made up of local people took the lead. They needed £500,000 to buy the property and, after applying for grants, decided to embark on a share scheme offering members of the community a stake in the business for a cost of £50 each. The response was overwhelming, with around 300 residents buying shares. Their aim was not only to restore a friendly country pub and offer local employment opportunities, but to create a true community facility. As well as the pub, they run a basic shop and café and offer an open meeting venue, a re-cycling point, community garden and play area. We were pleased to support this project and the amazing efforts of local people that has put the heart back into their rural community. Share Environment Lambourne End Centre for Outdoor Learning Read more The blend of activities which they run on-site helps young people to build their confidence and self-esteem, improve teamwork skills, generates a sense of achievement, and overall raises the aspirations they have for themselves. We supported their project, Common Ground, which is an intergenerational project where participants get involved in conservation, estate maintenance, landscaping, gardening, and farming. Share Mental Health Laughter Specialists Read more Laughter can truly be the best medicine, and that is why Laughter Specialists have been offering therapeutic sessions to hospital inpatients and patients with special needs since 2007. They deliver sessions to approximately 4,000 people a year, using their artistic and entertainment skills to bring them laughter and fun thereby improving their well being. Their interactive play sessions are in high demand, as they provide respite to the children and families during challenging times. Their work is a distraction from the situation which children might be finding difficult. We have supported their running costs and recruitment costs as they expanded their services. Share Children and Young People Lawford Church of England Primary School Read more We helped the PTA to replace raised beds that are used for a gardening and a well-being club. The children can now learn about flowers and vegetables, and how to grow them, while making new friends and having fun. Share Education, Training and Advice Leadership Through Sport and Business Read more The young people are supported to develop their presentation and interview skills, and taught how to create a CV. By working with local businesses the organisation also secures paid apprenticeships and job opportunities for them. This helps to develop their confidence and gives them real life experience. The charity guarantees each young person has at least one job interview with a suitable employer lined up for when they finish the programme. With funding from us, they provided bootcamps to 50 young people in Southend, who also gained three days of work experience. Share Housing and Homelessness Lighthouse Furniture Project Read more These items, which are sold on at low cost to the general public of which many are on low incomes, helps to cover their operating costs and allows Lighthouse Furniture Project to focus on their main aim, which is to alleviate hardship and improve the quality of life of vulnerable people within the community. This often includes homeless families and individuals and others in some form of housing crisis, including those escaping domestic abuse. We recently awarded them funding towards a new collection and delivery van as the previous one was unreliable. Share Sport Little Clacton Carpet Bowls Club Read more There are no other recreational clubs close by and with a limited bus service the bowls club is a vital part of the local community. Our funds enabled them to replace the carpet and contributed to the rental costs of the club. We hope they will enjoy playing bowls for many years to come. Share Children and Young People Little Explorers Preschool Read more We were pleased to award the funding to continue this project. Rachel Eaton, manager at Little Explorers Preschool, said: “We are so excited to receive this funding from the East of England Co-op. It is giving us the opportunity to talk about healthy eating and good oral care in really fun, new ways. “We will be improving our garden area so the children will have the opportunity to grow food and maybe take some home too! Since the pandemic, many parents have also found it difficult to find dentists. So, alongside growing and eating fruit and veg, we will be providing toothbrushes and teaching the children about good oral health too. The impact will be long-lasting. We are hoping that by learning about healthy choices now, the children will continue to do so throughout their adult lives too. Both the team and our children cannot wait to get started with this project; it will make such a difference.” Share Children and Young People Livewire Trust Read more They believe that the arts should be available to everyone regardless of economic status or ability, and strive to get young people who have had little or no contact with the arts before involved. We funded the running costs of their ‘Theatre Challenge’ projects that run during the school Summer holidays. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage London Bus Theatre Read more By visiting young people in schools, colleges and at youth organisations, London Bus host drama workshops, plays and create short films on issues such as bullying, drugs, alcohol, knife crime, anti-social behaviour. Their most recent grant helped them to develop a short film on alcohol misuse, getting young people from Castle Point involved in its production. This allowed the young people involved and audience to better understand the risk of violence and alcohol, talk about difficult issues that concern them, with the aim of reducing overall anti-social behaviour in the area. Share Children and Young People Maldon & District Community Voluntary Services Read more They work in partnership with local communities, voluntary organisations, and statutory agencies to support the community effectively. They offer various activities such as fitness classes for older people and weekly social groups, as well as practical information and advice at their Hub. A grant from us enabled them to run the Power of Gaming project which uses gaming as a tool for secondary school children to build skills, confidence and peer support by providing a safe after school space to game. This allows them to share a usually isolating activity with friends and also reduces the chance of online grooming and adverse influencing. Share Sport Maldon Cricket Club Read more The club holds matches at Maldon Promenade and has around 200 members of varying ages. We have recently funded the refurbishment of their cricket wicket and playing area, to bring the pitch up to a playable standard. Maldon Cricket Club holds the title for the training ground of Sir Alastair Cook, who played for Maldon from the age of 12 to 18, and by working closely with local schools, the club aims to inspire new generations of cricketers. Share Environment Market Field Farm Read more We supported their Market Field Grows project where the young people undertake maintenance and gardening for Parish Councils, placing focus on wildlife conservation and planting native species. They also help the community maintain their own spaces and help bring wildlife into their gardens. Share Disability MAZE Group CIC Read more The courses give vital help and guidance to parents, or carers, of children with additional needs, including those with a learning difficulty, physical disability, autism, ADHD or cerebral palsy. Thanks to the training, called ‘the MAZE Approach’, families are able to build more positive relationships, develop communication strategies and improve behaviour. We awarded them a grant to increase the number of training courses for parents in Colchester and Tendring. Share Disability Mcdworks Read more The therapeutic services facilitated by MCDworks include yoga, fitness sessions, music therapy and more. They also offer weekends away and short breaks. These programmes provide vital respite for caregivers, while also helping children and young adults to better cope with everyday life. ECF has helped to fund these mini-retreats for families. Share Fairness and Equality Melbourne Project Read more Working with volunteers, the project provides a wide range of activities including a homework club for children, a meeting group for elderly residents to encourage socialising and building friendships, and a summer holiday activity week for children living on the Estate. Regular support from one of our funds enables delivery of a cookery programme for parents and children which encourages healthy eating. Food is prepared from recipes that can be easily recreated at home, alongside learning about food nutrition and healthy eating. Share Fairness and Equality Micro Rainbow CIC Read more Alongside running safehouses for LGBTQI asylum seekers , they operate a social inclusion programme to help people build friendships and reduce isolation through one-to-one support and group sessions . They also provide employability, benefits, and immigration support to help LGBTQI refugees integrate into their new home . Our support has funded the running costs for the safe houses and the salary of an outreach officer. This provides a safe space for people that have similar experiences to access essential services and educational opportunities, giving them a better chance to thrive, and reducing the risks of homelessness or exclusion. Share Mental Health Mid and North East Essex Mind Read more Alongside counselling sessions and their Support, Time and Recovery Service (STaRS) programme for practical guidance, they deliver the Well-being and Resilience Mental health Service (WARMS) which provides early intervention support to children, young people and their families in the schools that are connected to them. This includes workshops, advice sessions, and group work for both children and their parents, as well as peer to peer support. They also have their North East Essex Crisis Café to provide well-being support for self-referred individuals around Colchester or Tendring who are in emotional distress or experiencing a mental health crisis. A grant enabled them to employ a new community link support worker for the Café. This is a safe space for people to share their feelings and identify the triggers that have led to crisis. Together with the individual, the team put strategies in place to help prevent a crisis reoccurring, building their resilience, and provide a listening ear, to support and empower the individuals over a tea or coffee. Share Mental Health Mind in West Essex Read more By providing activities, services, support, and information in line with people’s needs, the charity has been able to understand how they can best support the community’s mental health and wellbeing. With a grant from us, they have been able to pilot a new programme recruiting volunteers who may have also accessed mental health services themselves. They have found that volunteers have reported that the opportunity to make a difference in someone’s life is incredibly valuable for their own wellbeing as well as for the wellbeing of the person that they are supporting. Share Mental Health Mind of the Student Read more MOTS focuses its effort and programme delivery in areas with higher than normal levels of deprivation , due to the strong link between poverty and young people’s mental health. T hrough a unique mental health awareness programme, their aim is to give young people the knowledge and understanding to recognise their own mental health needs and the support pathways available when in emotional distress. Share Mental Health Ministry of Parenting Read more They are committed to positive parenting interventions, particularly during children’s early years and adolescence. This includes delivering parenting support groups, educational workshops, young people’s workshops and one-to-one parent coaching sessions. Ministry of Parenting have shared with us an increasing need for those families who have children with ADHD, and a long waiting list of parents wanting to access this specialist support. A grant from us helped them run even more of their programmes, to reach even more families. This includes continuing their existing programmes to help parents develop coping strategies, improve relationships in the home, and work with the child’s school. Share Children and Young People Mistley Kids Club Read more At the club, children with special or additional needs can have fun alongside their peers in a fully supervised setting. Even during school holidays, the club keeps running with a wide range of educational and entertainment activities, including games and cooking. Our support is helping the club to thrive with further staff development plans, a wider variety of activities tailored to their members’ needs. Share Education, Training and Advice New Life Wood Read more Through referrals from prisons and mental health organisations, appropriate people are selected to work on the wood recycling project for three months where they can earn a certificate and the opportunity to obtain a written reference on their performance to help them apply for jobs. They also receive mentoring and life/employment skills as well as day-to-day skills for money management. Share Community Safety Next Chapter Read more They provide immediate advice and accommodation referrals to reduce the risk of imminent harm as well as long-term emotional and practical support through their recovery programmes and specialist advocacy. A grant from us has enabled them to furnish and equip a drop-in space for clients at their Colchester premises. This offers a warm, safe and discreet space where people can get advice and support. By providing this dedicated space, Next Chapter wants to encourage more victims to reach out for shelp, develop peer support networks and feel comfortable to attend their recovery programmes. Share Children and Young People North Avenue Youth Centre Read more They deliver centre-based youth work sessions, detached youth work, holiday programmes, residentials, and on occasion one to one and family support, with the aim to empower young people to reach their potential and provide them with resources to combat any educational, social, and economic disadvantages. Funding from us is helping them to maintain their space, and provide young people with the opportunity to develop relationships with trusted adults while engaging in new, fun activities to support their personal and social development. Share Housing and Homelessness Off The Streets Read more Off the Streets provide emergency housing for those looking to start a journey of independence and genuinely wanting to improve their personal circumstances. Their advocacy and mental health support services are a lifeline. The dedicated team offer guidance and support to individuals so they feel empowered to self-improve and get back on their feet. Share Education, Training and Advice OJA Group Read more In their programme they support black women and girls below the age of 35 to address issues such as low self-esteem, lack of role models, limited access to networks and financial challenges. We helped them to expand their ‘Journey to Success’ programme into Harlow, Brentwood, and Epping Forest and providing support with CV writing, job applications and other administrative skills, all with the ambition of increasing employment success. Share Community Safety One Voice for Travellers Read more Set up by a group of Travellers, they work to increase understanding and reduce violence. Part of this work is confidential support for Gypsy women and girls who may be experiencing violence, domestic abuse, or are struggling to obtain educational opportunities. A grant from us has supported the continuation of their work with women and girls in Essex and proactively deal with incidents of abuse by telephone text, email, and online, in respect of Traveller, Gypsy or Roma culture. Ultimately promoting the security of the entire community. Share Education, Training and Advice Open Door Colchester Read more Their drop-in centre provides a café style setting where the team gives advice and practical help to those who visit, or refers them to other agencies for additional support. We awarded a grant towards their running costs and to extend the hours of their much used drop-in service. Share Mental Health Open Door Loughton Read more Paula Wilson, who set up the group, said: “We offer the basic friendship and support that people need so much when they are discharged from a mental health unit. They find it hard to settle back into the community and may feel very much on their own. The members of the group are so supportive of each other and they can enjoy social interaction and activities in a safe place, with people around them who understand mental health problems.” We awarded them funding to cover the hire of the church hall where they meet. They also plan to expand and develop activities, adding in healthy cooking sessions. Share Children and Young People Open Door Thurrock Read more Their TIME project supports young people who have been missing and look at the child’s reasons for wanting to escape and help to turn around what are often negative situations at home or school. We funded this project which came as a response to 925 missing children episodes being recorded in Thurrock, involving 461 children, in a 12 month period. Share Mental Health Open Road Read more They give people a safe place to come and discuss their problems free from judgement and in complete confidence. Their mission is to empower people to lead healthy and more meaningful lives, free from addiction, offending behaviour and disadvantage, to ensure healthier, happier lifestyles. Open Road was one of the first local charities we supported back in 1996 and we continue to fund aspects of their work. We were delighted to be profiled in their “Spotlight on a Funder” section of their newsletter, which you can read here . Share Children and Young People Ormiston Families Read more We have funded the charity’s outreach service at HM Prison Chelmsford. This service supports children and young people aged 4-16 who are affected by the imprisonment of a parent or carer. Graham Bricknell, Business Development Manager, said: “The impact of having a parent in prison can be devastating for a child. On average, 43% of prisoners lose contact with their families during their sentence – resulting in low educational attainment, bullying and mental health issues. It is also likely that the child will go on to offend in later life. Through our ‘Breaking Barriers’ project we help to continue family relationships throughout the sentence and break that cycle of re-offending.” Share Education, Training and Advice Over 50s Black Men’s Forum Read more The organisation is based in Chelmsford and focuses on identifying and overturning harmful stereotypes about age and ethnicity, which it does by sharing insights and knowledge across its member base. This can be in the form of skills workshops and health seminars. Our support helped them to take their catalogue and community online, reaching out to more new members. Also helping to cover the costs of the support workers and experts who are providing the training. Share Mental Health PACT for Autism Read more PACT offers various services, such as monthly meetings for parents and carers of adults with autism or similar conditions, and provides them with information by both phone and e-mail. PACT also brings families together to combat isolation, and puts people in contact with other support organisations. They also help parents and families to learn how best to care for their loved one through informative talks, training and activities. Share Education, Training and Advice Parents 1st Read more They recruit and train volunteer parents and grandparents who offer friendly peer support and encouragement to help new parents to keep themselves healthy, to have a positive birth experience and give their babies the best possible start in life. They also support parents with various concerns from housing to employment worries. Their usual activities consist of meeting face to face, carrying out home visits, running group sessions for parents to meet each other, and attending clinics. Our grant has helped to fund the continued running of these important services. Share Mental Health Personalised Eating Disorder Support Read more Eating disorders have the highest mortality rate of any mental illness and early intervention is key to helping someone with their recovery. Ensuring that family members understand the condition their loved one is struggling with, is crucial in helping someone to manage and overcome their disorder. We funded their monthly support group which provides a space for carers to share concerns and frustrations and to receive advice from a trained professional. Share Disability Phab Café Read more We awarded them a grant towards their running costs. Sandra Howarth, from the charity The Phab Life which runs the Phabulous Café, said: “The young people prepare and serve everything, which can either be eaten in house or as a takeaway. Over the past year, we have seen 12 of our young people complete the programme and either go on to paid employment or other working opportunities. We have also built up a social network group to help the young people develop their self-worth and create lasting friendships.” Share Children and Young People Pioneer Sailing Trust Read more With our support they developed a piece of work that uses sailing as a way to break down barriers between family members and promote positive communication. Felicity Lees, from Pioneer Sailing Trust, said: “We are so grateful for funding from ECF as it will enable us to take more families out this year. Being on the sailing vessel allows social workers time to interact with the families they are helping, build trust, encourage them to talk about their problems and work out what longer-term support they might need. It is wonderful that our sailing vessel Pioneer can be used for such positive work.” Share Mental Health Plant Pots and Wellies Read more The group creates opportunities for people to be in the fresh air, a safe space to get involved socially, to learn new skills and improve physical health and mobility. There are so many benefits to taking part on the allotment in Harlow and all are welcome. We have given grants towards the tools needed on the allotment, and to increasing the number of open days for the community to take part, which brings more people together. Share Mental Health Pregnancy Expectations Trauma and Loss Society (PETALS) Read more We all want the best for a new baby, but for women and families who experience loss or miscarriage, there can be very real and lasting effects. They may be unsure about where to find help or how to talk about their feelings. A grant from us is enabling PETALS to provide counselling with compassion and care to support women and their families coming to terms with their loss and move forward. PETALS believe in centralising their practice around their clients, which means helping anyone who needs support regardless of circumstance. They are also advocating for more visibility of this important service, uplifting more women as the organisation grows. Share Mental Health Project Mind Empower Read more Working with children and young adults aged between 9-19, their services are diverse but all work towards the same positive outcome, which is promote self-esteem, build confidence and develop an enjoyment of sports. These activities are designed to benefit the participants and help younger children particularly transition into secondary school. We previously supported Project Mind Empower with £3,500 to deliver their life coaching courses, based in Chelmsford, to help children overcome anxiety. Share Environment Proud of Mersea Read more This group is made up of over 100 litter pickers, who volunteer to go out on patrols to tidy up the roads and public footpaths of Mersea Island. The group pick litter throughout Mersea, hoping to make it the first litter free island in the country. They’re out cleaning pathways, beautifying verges and raising awareness about the problem of litter. Share Fairness and Equality Rainbow Services Read more By sharing local news, holding regular meetings and workshops with community groups, Rainbow Services have formed a strong network, all working to support individuals across the District. They also deliver local projects in partnership with other organisations, as well as individually. We have recently funded their social group for neurodivergent adults. The sessions run on the first Saturday of each month and enable people, with or without a diagnosis, to make friends, have a safe space to talk about their lives, and learn more about support available to them. Share Children and Young People Rainbow Trust Children’s Charity Read more Their support team works very closely with families, helping to manage everyday life as well as improving their confidence and well-being. Our grant contributed to their transport costs to allow families and their support worker easier access to hospital appointments, shopping, or to take siblings to social activities when the parent or carer is at the hospital. This helps to reduce the stress that families face when caring for their unwell child. It is a constant service that they can rely on, helping them to feel supported. Share Children and Young People Raw Learning Read more Through the benefits of the outdoor environment, experienced teachers help children to develop their confidence and many different skills outside of the traditional school system. Both neurotypical and neurodiverse children are welcome to the classes where they can follow their interests and initiatives. They support around 30 families with wellbeing sessions and activities that include cookery, growing fruit and vegetables, as well as gardening. These projects are all delivered to meet the complex needs of the children, through self – discovery, teamwork and developing independence. Share Children and Young People Rawcous C.I.C Read more Our funding has supported their core running costs, including their community allotment project, which will allow local families with neurodiverse children to come together and use this space. This allows the children to have equal educational opportunities that are based in a natural environment, positively benefiting their physical and mental well-being. Through their work, they also aim to provide the right support for neurodiverse children to thrive as adults. Share Fairness and Equality Rayleigh Vineyard Growbaby Read more The bundles, created by a volunteer team, and are often delivered to families across Rayleigh, and in the last year have benefitted over 600 people. They accept donations and larger items such as buggies or moses baskets, which are stored for families to drop-in and select what they need. Our grant has supported the organisation’s running costs so they can continue to provide relief to families that are struggling financially or lack support, and increase their capacity to help even more people. This has built a community of local families who can support one another, and through this have recycled 1,072Kg of clothes and equipment. Share Older communities Re Engage Read more Loneliness can increase the risk of illnesses such as heart disease, dementia and depression, so Re-engage are seeking to alleviate this for those who live in Essex. All their services are free to older people so that anyone can take part, no matter their economic situation. ECF have helped fund their telephone befriending service, which matches passionate volunteers with over 300 local residents to brighten their days, as well as hosting monthly tea parties where they can meet and socialise in person. These efforts leave local residents feeling happier, and have something to look forward to with their friends. Share Mental Health Reach Out For Mental Health Read more The group, based in Chelmsford, is a talking service that can be accessed in person, via text or phone, that will speak with anyone who needs to be heard. We supported ROFMH’s with their running costs so they can keep working to ensure that nobody faces a mental health struggle alone. Note: would like to find out more about them, to help explain more about the specific service they provide. Share Children and Young People Red Balloon Foundation Read more Our funding is helping RBF to raise the aspirations of local young people, enabling them to achieve their full potential and gain successful employment, therefore preventing the possibility of them falling into a life of crime. Share Fairness and Equality Refugee and Migrant Forum of Essex and London Read more Their busy client facing service sees around 1,000 clients per year, for these clients they provide legal advice, casework support, destitution support and crisis intervention. The funding we awarded to them will enable individuals and families access to legal and immigration support services, which will help them to gain citizenship so they can gain employment and restart their lives. Share Fairness and Equality Refugee, Asylum Seeker & Migrant Action (RAMA) Read more They provide immigration advice, casework, community support, and therapeutic activities to help their beneficiaries navigate the challenges of a new home, foreign language, job market, and cultural norms. By partnering with the local council, RAMA support resettlement schemes, and a grant from us has developed their foodbank which provides culturally appropriate food, clothing, and essential items for those that need it. The foodbank also offers a welcoming space for beneficiaries to come forward, to feel safe and listened to, while receiving practical support, which encourages positive health and well-being. Share Disability Rehabilitation, Education and Assessment Centre for Hippotherapy (REACH) Read more A grant has supported their running costs, which will allow them to continue to help people of all ages with various disabilities and mental health issues to improve their mobility and quality of life . They will also be able to increase their team members and therefore their capacity . Share Mental Health Renew Counselling Ltd Read more Using their grant, Renew Counselling ran support sessions for a group of young people who they identified as having been particularly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Renew provided them with a space that is safe, welcoming and supportive. Encouraging the young people to talk about their feelings and work through their difficulties whether it be low mood, anxiety, stress, or family issues. This dedicated, focused support helped the young people to become more resilient, better able to manage anxiety, and make positive life choices. Share Children and Young People Rochford District Schools Partnership Trust Read more Their team, made up of five family support workers and an educational psychologist, offer a long-term holistic approach to supporting local families and young people. The team have specialist skills in dealing with issues such as bereavement support, homelessness, family breakdown, disability and young peoples mental health. Our funding means they can provide additional support for parents of autistic children to help them navigate educational challenges due to the lockdowns. Share Disability SAFE Essex Read more Their work aims to raise awareness of these conditions and provides emotional and practical support for individuals, and their families. They also engage the parents in a wide range of topics such as benefit claims, employment tips, Education, Health and Care plans, which not only helps them plan for the future but develops their social opportunities. Our grant has supported the salary of a development worker, who coordinates work with more than 120 individuals and families across Essex. Share Housing and Homelessness Safe Steps Read more They offer a crisis helpline, safety planning and advocacy. They also offer temporary safe accommodation for women and their families, and work with local schools to run sessions that help young people identify unhealthy relationships and improve awareness of relationship abuse. Our funding helped them to create a consultation room for families seeking refuge in their Southend accommodation. In this space they provide one-to-one essential recovery and resettlement support. Share Community Safety Safer Places Read more They offer emotional support, advocacy, access to safe accommodation, domestic abuse programmes, legal advice, counselling, and access to their Women’s Centre. They also provide therapeutic services to support children who have been affected by or witnessed abused. Services are individually tailored for each person, and Safer Places works with clients and their families to reduce risks and increase their safety. A grant from us supported the salary of their volunteer co-ordinator at The Rosie Centre in Harlow. This will enable them to co-ordinate volunteer activity at the centre and develop a team of volunteers to continue providing high quality information, advice, support, and training/education. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Saffron Walden Community Shed Read more The Shed is a place where those with interests in crafting can meet to share and improve skills and combat loneliness and isolation. The Shed has several pieces of equipment for wood turning and wood recycling. Members of the Community Shed are paying back into their local community with a make and mend service, recycling initiatives, and workshops where young people can come and learn about this steadfast craft. A grant from us has allowed them to expand their availability to ensure all members have the chance to participate. Share Housing and Homelessness Sanctus Read more Through their Hub, Sanctus supports the long-term needs of the individuals no matter what their circumstances, age, or race. They offer guidance to a network of services so that visitors can get the help they need. Their work is person-focused and based on trust. If Sanctus did not provide this service, the wider community, other charities and government departments and agencies would be under more pressure. Sanctus provides the opportunity to create conditions for change, alongside a community environment for cohesion, tolerance and bridging barriers. We supported the running costs of their café, enabling their outreach work to continue serving the community. Share Children and Young People Schoolreaders Read more Children who are involved in the programme have weekly visits from a volunteer who listens to them reading aloud and helps them with reading, particularly where they are struggling. This not only improves the child’s reading ability, but also provides them with care and support, which ultimately develops their literacy skills that will help them with work across the school curriculum. With funding from a grant, they have been able to continue their outreach across Essex. They told us that “25% of primary schools across Essex are now registered with on the scheme with requests for up to 15 volunteers from individual schools.” Share Disability SEND the Right Message Read more Born out of the shared experience of the local community, Trustees, and volunteers, SEND the Right Message are easily accessible through their Online Parent Forum, SEND Support Coffee mornings, Community Disability Benefit Service, Grant Support Packages, Events, Webinars, and resource pages, along with a Bouldering Club initiative. We have awarded them a grant to support their operational costs, as well as the hosting of a webinar for ‘Neurodivergent Distressed Behaviours’. This funding has allowed them to provide emotional support and training to families, and reduce the inequalities faced by people with disabilities, and their carers. Share Fairness and Equality Shoeburyness Residents Association Read more Alongside representing the community within the Council, they have developed groups that support the physical and mental health of residents, and arrange local support services such as shopping, dog walking and rubbish clearance. A grant from us has enabled them to install an innovative solar powered audio talking bench on Shoebury East beach. The built in device plays prerecorded messages which change regularly, to give people a positive message and boost to their day. This was put in following the lifts to COVID-19 lockdowns as they found people were more hesitant to leave their homes and concerns for loneliness increased. Share Education, Training and Advice Signals Essex Media Centre Read more The group uses digital technology for creative learning opportunities, and to increase community engagement. Their courses and workshops in subjects like film education, media production and digital art, give local young people a voice and a chance to share their stories. These programmes are based on collaboration and sharing knowledge, which creates environments for exploration, learning, and community engagement. We have helped fund several workshops at Signals, to support learning and creativity. Share Older communities Small Acts of Kindness Read more Alongside multiple other organisations, Small Acts of Kindness provide clothes and blankets to vulnerable individuals, as well as signposting them to further support that ensures they stay warm and healthy throughout the colder months We helped them continue their efforts to distribute “Warm in Winter” packs, supporting those in need and helping reduce feelings of isolation. Share Disability SNAP Read more Their focus is to inform and encourage so that parents can become better equipped to give the best possible help to their children. More than 2,800 families are currently receiving help from SNAP and their services include a helpline, specialist talks on specific conditions and a range of therapeutic and developmental activities for children, such as yoga, drama, multi-sensory activities, as well as after school clubs and activities during school holidays. Our support helped them to provide counselling and mediation sessions for family members to articulate their feelings, identify coping strategies and improve home life. Share Community Safety SOS Rape Crisis Read more They support over 700 individuals, including on average 500 new referrals each year and this latter figure is expected to rise during the current year. Most of their clients are women with only a few men being supported. Nationally, only 15% of victims report a sexual violence crime to the police and many suffer years of mental health issues, substance dependency and other debilitating side effects of their attack. We are pleased to help them with the annual lease cost of their premises from which they provide a range of specialised services. Around 50% of contacts are self-referrals and the remaining referrals come from the Police and other agencies. There is no doubt that their client base will continue to grow as more high-profile cases come to light and awareness raising campaigns encourage victims to come forward. Share Environment South Downs Allotment Association Read more They enjoy welcoming people of all ages and abilities to get outdoors and planting, which not only provides them with healthy, free food but gives them something to watch flourish and an achievement to be proud of. Sadly, a fire in the area caused the allotment to lose their equipment shed so a grant helped them to replace this and the lost equipment. This allows the community to keep enjoying the outdoors, supporting their well-being, and providing a space to exercise. Share Education, Training and Advice South Essex Advocacy Services Read more They support over 2,000 people each year who may be older, have a long-term health condition, or struggle completing written forms. As well as a qualified staff team, SEAS has the help of volunteers to carry out their services. Our grant funded advocacy training and additional qualifications for their volunteers, to allow them to take on more challenging cases. This means SEAS could increase their capacity and help more people to make better changes, improve their well-being, health and living conditions. Share Education, Training and Advice Southend Association of Voluntary Services (SAVS) Read more SAVS received a grant to renovate the park and create a safe space for children to play and learn about nature, adding a trail and installing educational boards. The area is now used and safely enjoyed by members of the local community, including young families. Share Fairness and Equality Southend Foodbank Read more They issue food parcels and additional items (such as toiletries) to people referred to by local professional agencies who have been identified as being in an emergency or crisis situation. This includes families on low incomes, people in debt, people who are homeless or vulnerably housed and, most commonly, families who are experiencing delays in their benefits payments. We are pleased to support their distribution centres across Southend, which give away in excess of 3,000 food parcels each year. Share Disability Southend In Sight Read more They offer advice covering a wide range of issues and give support on how to use specialist equipment to help people remain independent in their own homes. They also host a signposting service at Southend Hospital for people who have been newly diagnosed. Their telephone befriending scheme is hosted alongside organised social activities, which enables people with sight loss to enjoy some free time in a supported environment and to reduce their general isolation. A grant from us supported their running costs to enable them to maintain and extend their services. Share Disability Southend Mencap Read more To help their members gain work experience they set up The Novel Coffee Shop to provide a safe space where they can improve their skills and employment opportunities. The grant awarded to Mencap is helping up to 40 people per week to showcase their skills and how they can contribute to local businesses and their wider community. Share Community Safety Southend United Community and Educational Trust Read more We have funded several of their projects, including their longstanding Senior Shrimpers group for local residents aged 55+, walking football sessions for those not as physically able, and community drop-in activities. This brings people together to have fun and take part in activities to improve their health and well-being, while also building their social connections. Alongside this, the Trust runs a youth club for LGBTQ+ young people, giving them a safe and inclusive environment to take part, learn new skills and gain confidence. The Trust told us that violent crime has increased locally by 39% in the last year so they started an anti-knife crime project for young people in Southend, which has been very successful. This includes holding educational workshops and activity days at local schools to teach young people about the dangers of knife-crime and the impact on communities. Share Fairness and Equality Southend Vineyard Read more They have worked on the Queensway Estate for many years, but identified that residents felt no sense of community spirit which was contributing to the run-down state of the area, so they applied to us for funding to employ a community organiser. This new role focused on getting residents involved in a regeneration project for the area, in partnership with the local housing agency, Council and Police. Everyone, regardless of ethnicity, gender or faith was encouraged to contribute ideas at regularly hosted community forums and to get involved in taking ideas forward. Having their opinions valued, has helped residents to care more about their area and a sense of community has returned. Share Housing and Homelessness Southend YMCA Read more They provide accommodation for 60 people aged 16-21 years old, which not only gives them vital shelter, but also helps them to gain confidence from living with others and builds independent living skills. We funded their pilot with Homeless Link that gives young people affected by housing issues a voice in their community, encouraging them to get involved in campaigning on policy and inputting into current plans. Share Housing and Homelessness Springfield Furniture Bank Read more A local branch of the St Vincent de Paul Society, the volunteer-run service collects, tests and delivers various furniture and white goods to households in need. We supported them with their running costs, so that they can continue making their deliveries around the Chelmsford area. Share Mental Health St Clare Hospice Read more The scheme connects people who are socially isolated due to life limiting illnesses or limited mobility from older age with members of the public, who volunteer their time to visit or call them regularly. Julie Foster, from St. Clare Hospice, said: “This grant from ECF helped us to employ a full-time support worker who will expand our work matching local volunteers to members of the community by encouraging the building of genuine friendships through weekly visits or phone calls.” Julie added, “The project benefits both parties – the compassionate neighbour and the community member. Many of our compassionate neighbours have experienced the loss of a loved one and are themselves lonely and isolated.” Sylvy volunteers as a compassionate neighbour and said: “I had always wanted to give something back and when I found out about the scheme, and that I could start doing home visits to bring companionship, I knew this project was right for me. But it’s a two-way thing; it’s got to work for both people, and with Pam, my match, as soon as I walked in the door, I knew that this was right.” Share Mental Health St Helena Hospice Read more The hospice provides specialist end of life care to patients, their family, and friends in Tendring. This service reduces the suffering of individuals with diagnoses, and the stress of relatives and carers by providing free palliative care. We helped St Helena Hospice to support patients’ physical, psychological and spiritual needs with a variety of services, including creative group workshops. Share Fairness and Equality St Mark’s Food Drop In Read more Before the pandemic they were helping 20 people locally and it has since risen to over 100. The grant we awarded to them has meant they can provide each recipient with a box of essential items e.g. soup, rice, pasta and other non-perishables; meat, cheese, spread, and other fridge / freezer foods. They also repsond to “holiday hunger” needs during school holidays where children that would receive free meals during term-time need additional food. Share Housing and Homelessness St Vincent de Paul Read more We have a supported a project run by St Vincent de Paul in Southend that responds to the food needs of people who are currently homeless and other vulnerable groups. Alongside this service, they also extend their outreach support to refugees, food insecure people, and those experiencing poverty. The society responds to all need with compassion and respect, and is fuelled by the drive to lift people up. Share Mental Health Stansted Mental Health Initiative Read more We awarded Stansted Mental Health Initiative a grant so they could develop a community-based programme of support for people living in Stansted Mountfitchet and its surrounding villages. This was in response to the COVID-19 pandemic which was a challenging time for everyone, but particularly for those individuals suffering with anxiety, stress, depression or a variety of other mental problems. As lockdown was eased, they offered a range of community groups which allowed residents to meet up and support each other, as well as receiving talks from trained mental health first aiders. They also run a drop in and chat service, and meditation and crafts classes. Share Children and Young People Stepping Stones Play and Learn Group Read more They teach all children Makaton signing and use visual communication to help the children develop. They support children with a range of conditions, which can present with developmental delays, limited lifespan, sensory impairments, and little or no language or communication skills. Alongside this, they signpost families to other services, provide practical support, listen to families, and offer a safe space for their children to be cared for that local families trust. A grant from us has funded the salary of a key worker, who will support the work in their nursery, tots group, parent support groups, and holiday clubs. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Stow Maries Great War Aerodrome Read more Over 40 volunteers support this organisation that provides a wide range of activities and events for all age groups, helping to increase their understanding and knowledge of the Air Campaign during the Great War. We supported a project that gave young people the opportunity to build model aircraft, small vehicles and rockets, whilst learning about the history of the War. Share Housing and Homelessness Streets2Homes Read more They also support their clients in overcoming any issues they are facing, such as alcohol misuse or poor mental health. This happens in a variety of ways including group art sessions. With our support they employed a housing and project officer to help register new clients, identify needs and create a plan to resolve their housing issues. This includes liaising directly with over 30 landlords and operating a deposit scheme to overcome financial barriers in accessing accommodation. Share Mental Health Strengths in Communities CIC Read more By recruiting and training volunteers who have parenting experience they offer parents-to-be support and encouragement to keep them healthy, have a positive birth and give their babies the best possible start in life. Their Pregnancy Pals and Birth Buddies project helps mums and dads to build their confidence, feel supported, prepare for changes ahead, be less stressed and talk through worries they may have. The project also helps them to make friendships with other new parents. Our support funded a series of pre-natal and post-natal group fitness sessions, to help boost health and wellbeing. Share Mental Health Student Minds Read more Our fundholders, the Charlie Watkins Foundation, have supported them to develop a n assessment tool, designed by a panel of mental health experts and students, to help recognise universities that promote positive mental health and demonstrate good practice. Share Disability Support 4 Sight Read more The organisation aims to support, empower, and inspire people affected by sight loss through delivering services including signposting to support services, demonstrations of assistive technology, home and telephone check-ins, providing emotional support in hospitals after diagnosis, as well as organising social group outings and short breaks. A grant has enabled them to expand their social and well-being activities throughout the week including craft, book, games, exercise, technology and awareness classes. Socialising in a safe and familiar space helps people meet new friends and try new things. Share Disability Tabor Centre Read more Members attend educational classes, take part in creative activities and learn new skills. They are also encouraged to keep fit and healthy so that they can achieve their potential and live their lives to the fullest. We recently awarded them funding for a new wheelchair-accessible bus to transport people with disabilities to and from the centre. This was vital as many members cannot access public transport, as they are either in wheelchairs or have severe mobility problems. Share Education, Training and Advice Tailored Futures CIC Read more With help from us, Tailored Futures has been able to run a programme of mental and physical health classes for people on parole. They have been using their grant to improve trust, wellbeing and employment uptake among their clients. Thanks to Tailored Futures, over one thousand people have been able to turn their lives around and reintegrate into their communities. This is an excellent method of enhancing community safety; removing barriers to regaining self-sufficiency for those looking for a second chance. Share Disability Takiwatanga Support Services Read more Takiwatanga Support Services was originally set up by a group of parents of autistic children, as a way to support eachother in a kind, non-judgemental space, discuss their problems and help increase access to the professional services they need. Our funding for their operating costs means they can focus on their work which includes; providing information, signposting to relevant agencies, running emotional support groups for parents, providing social and educational activities for autistic children and raising public awareness of autism. Share Environment Tall Ships Youth Trust Read more Their voyages give the young people an opportunity to work together aboard an ocean-based yacht where they work as a team by using communication and problem-solving skills. A grant from us allowed 20 young people aged 12-15 to join in a five-night voyage in the summertime, where they took part in setting and stowing sails, helming, rope work, navigation, climbing the mast, rowing the dinghies, cooking and cleaning. One of the young people who took part said “It was really amazing, I loved the whole experience, cooking cleaning, learning knots and just getting involved. I’ve improved my self-confidence because I was quite shy before. I’ve also conquered my fear of heights! We climbed the mast at sunset and the view was incredible.” Share Children and Young People Teen Talk (Harwich) Read more Support workers address a range of issues in these sessions including mental health, low self-esteem, bullying and the pressures of social media, all of which can play a critical role in preventing a young person from reaching their full potential. Alongside this, Teen Talk also runs weekly group activities such as cookery workshops, wildlife activities and volunteering programmes, helping their young people to further develop confidence, social skills and build friendships. Funding from us helped them to employ a co-ordinator to expand their work and further develop the sessions and activities they offer. Share Education, Training and Advice Tendring CVS Read more TOur funding has enabled them to recruit a part-time co-ordinator for its health and wellbeing centre in Harwich. The new centre acts as a hub for the local voluntary sector and hosts training workshops, events and networking opportunities. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage The Art Ministry Read more Allan Webb is a Trustee at The Art Ministry. He said: “We work with a wide range of people who need help to boost self-esteem, increase their self-confidence, build social skills and improve wellbeing. These include children with learning difficulties, young carers, and adults with visual impairments, physical difficulties, learning difficulties, early onset dementia, mental health problems and drug and alcohol issues.” Share Community Safety The Aspirations Program CIO Read more The team at Aspirations all have lived experience of the challenges associated with addiction, and run an outreach service for women with addictions that are involved in prostitution. Alongside this, they deliver one-to-one/group therapy, and practical support for these women and their families. A grant from us has contributed towards their rent, giving them a space to host these outreach opportunities, and provide a safe space for their Recovery Day Programme to treat addiction directly. This gives those suffering from addiction the ability to make positive changes, form better relationships with their families and friends, and apply for accommodation or statutory support, while learning life skills that will allow them to live independently in the future. They also gain a community of support where they are listened to, cared for, and treated with respect. Share Environment The Country Trust Read more They engage with young people from areas of high social and economic disadvantage and help them to have countryside experiences, which builds their confidence and understanding of where their food comes from. Our grant enabled The Country Trust to implement a programme of food discovery workshops in Basildon schools. These focus on children claiming free school meals, and teach them about healthy food choices, how to cook, what sustainable farming is and their own health. They even take the children on trips to a nearby working farm to educate them on where food comes from and how it is processed before hitting the supermarket shelves. This educational programme gives the children new life experiences, and builds their confidence to help improve their lives in the future. Share Children and Young People The Gifted Organisation Read more They have provided online video workshops throughout the pandemic with female guest speakers from different industries and sectors to deliver inspirational talks, Q&A’s and one-to-one conversations with the girls. We are delighted to fund this programme which aims to boost confidence and life aspirations. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage The Grand Theatre of Lemmings Read more Their performances, at schools, libraries, festivals and shows, encourage audience participation, which develop creative skills, build confidence, and fosters the personal development of those who take part. We funded their puppetry theatre show ‘George the Bookworm’ which took place in libraries and schools in Essex. They also performed at festivals including Latitude Festival, Essex Book Festival, and Barnes Children’s Literature Festival. ‘George the Bookworm’ was designed to encourage reading and writing skills. Since the show, 75% of viewers said that they had been visiting the library more often. Share Disability The Hut Mersea Island Read more Thanks to The Hut, families have access to a space that can be rented out with facilities that enable visits and enjoyment from those with disabilities or additional needs. With help from us, the Hut was able to improve accessibility for visitors with reduced mobility, meaning that nobody misses out on some beachside fun. Share Sport The Loss Project Read more The group supports both individuals and families with many forms of loss. This can be bereavement, losing a job, declining mental health and more. They use a combination of physical activity and wellbeing classes to help them improve their wellbeing and self-care. From boxing classes, to bespoke one-to-one programmes, there is a variety of options for those experiencing bereavement, as well as other forms of loss such as losing work. Share Education, Training and Advice The Next Chosen Generation CIC Read more The organisations aim is to reduce poverty in young people by delivering early intervention services that prevent them from becoming Not in Education, Employment, or Training (NEET). Our grant is supporting their running costs so they can deliver a number of projects, the variety and scope having changed and grown in response to the impact of COVID-19 and as their experience of the needs of young people increased. These include career coaching workshops, one-on-one mentoring, digital training, work placements and employability skills. Share Housing and Homelessness The One Love Project Read more They not only deliver vital healthcare and hygiene provisions such as hot food, clothes, haircuts, showers and health treatments, but also provide casework support and host sessions from other agencies. A grant from us has supported their running costs, as well as increasing the capacity of their administration and operations. This helps to manage coordination of outreach, family support, the soup kitchen, supplies van, and pop-up food provisions. It also helps maintains a familiar face that service users will get to know, trust, and can relay their needs to. This ultimately forges positive relationships and increases the well-being of users, restoring their self-worth and confidence. Share Fairness and Equality The Outhouse Read more They believe in a safe and sustainable society where all lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people can achieve their full potential. Outhouse offers support, information and counselling , as well as running awareness training to the community, outreach programmes and other services for individuals and their families. Their vital support ensures that members of this marginalised community have safe spaces where they are treated with dignity and respect, and can meet up to socialise. Share Mental Health The Reanella Trust Read more The grant enabled them to provide a virtual learning course to young people in one of the most deprived areas in, Greenstead, Colchester. Participants learned how to identify their mental health symptoms to understand when they may need to take better care of themselves, and were helped to develop coping mechanisms. This work also helps to reduce the stigma around the topic of mental health by creating an accepting group environment and it enables participants to feel more open to accessing mental health treatment. Share Environment The St Osyth Priory and Parish Trust Read more Their education programme focuses on wildlife and conservation, using the Estate, deer park, wilderness garden, and pond at St Osyth Priory Estate to immerse their visitors in nature and the Estate’s history. We supported their outdoor explorers project for children and their families to get together and play. Each session includes a nature walk, craft activity, and ends with story time to promote literacy skills. The sessions have helped families to feel a sense of community whilst also taking part in an outdoor activity which promotes good mental and physical health. Share The Study Room Read more Sport and physical development are important for everyone, especially children, and it can sometimes be difficult to find the right opportunities. With help from us, The Study Room is providing weekly sports sessions to around 200 local families. Alongside the qualified trainers, children can learn about team building and grow their confidence. The sessions are a safe space for them to be active and express themselves. Many parents have called this service “a wonder” and say that it is making a real difference to children’s lives. Share Mental Health Thurrock and Brentwood Mind Read more They offer a wide range of services including well-being activities such as sketching or gardening, befriending support, crisis services, supported housing, and a carers service. This helps people to get the right support at the right time. A grant from us helped them to recruit, train and support 12 young people aged 17-20 with lived experience of mental health difficulties to become Volunteer Youth Champions within the charity. This has improved their self-confidence, and provided a role model and peer supporter for other young people with similar mental health experiences to look up to. Share Mental Health Thurrock Christian Fellowship Read more The charity is always looking at ways to increase their support in the community. With support from us, they were able to launch their newest project, a café called Spacious Places. Not only does this café provide somewhere for people to meet and chase away loneliness, but it also invites those who are struggling to take that first step in asking for support. Thurrock Christian Fellowship plays an important role in the community and with a growing number of volunteers and staff joining their network of projects, it will continue supporting the community for the foreseeable future. Share Fairness and Equality Thurrock LGBTQ+ Network Read more Giving others the courage to be themselves is the very definition of pride, and a marvellous way to give back. The Network organises a wide variety of social events including bingo and singalongs where having fun is the only rule. Support from us means these colourful events can continue giving local LGBTQ+ residents a place where they can be themselves and make new friends. Share Disability Thurrock Mencap Society Read more We awarded them funding to run a healthy lifestyle project for their members. They decided to do this after having identified that many of their members have weight and fitness issues, this project teaches healthy food and encourages an active lifestyle. These activities include a weekly football club and dance classes. Share Community Safety Together Free Read more Together with project partners and other local organisations, Together Free helps to raise awareness of what Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking is, including providing awareness material, running campaigns and providing training for front-line professionals and community organisations, so they can learn to identify it and ensure their projects ‘slavery-proof’ through developing robust safeguarding procedures. Our funding has enabled Together Free to continue their work in the Borough of Southend and expand it to the City of Chelmsford. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Together In Musical Expression Read more They encourage people of all ages, abilities, and backgrounds to experiment with music as a way of expressing themselves. We enabled them to hold a music performance and workshops for ten elderly care homes in Basildon and Thurrock. The songs they covered were interactive, used different instruments and were from different genres. The residents were able to dance and share memories from their youth and create a joyful environment for residents, staff, and family members. Share Environment Together We Grow Read more We helped them to turn a shipping container into a space where the group can continue to meet, even in the colder months. Wayne Setford, Founder, said: “We run sessions 12 months of the year and our grant means we can create an inviting and warm space where people can access wellbeing and education activities such as crafts and cooking.” Share Older communities Tolleshunt Autumn Leaves Club Read more During recent years, the group of over 60 members have enjoyed outings to London shows, RHS gardens, seaside towns, and meals out, as well as visits from entertainers and speakers. Our grant has supported their running costs, to enable members to continue to meet with friends, enjoy some time outside of their home and explore their interests with others. They also make sure to commemorate each other’s birthdays with a card and celebration, so no one is left with a birthday going unmarked. Share Fairness and Equality Trinity Family Centre Read more Among the vast array of sessions they offer, are regular social sessions for parents, grandparents, and carers of pre-school children, a weekly English as a Second Language course for Polish residents, activities for adults with learning disabilities and after school clubs for sports and computing. During the school holidays they also run a programme of activities and outings for 8–15-year-olds. Our grant supported a new educational project teaching retail skills and offering work experience to people who face barriers to employment. This improves their self-confidence in a supported environment, where they can work towards their goals and career development. Share Mental Health Trust Links Read more Their allotment sites and gardens provide a safe space where people can come together to socialise and be with others who understand what they are going through. We have supported Trust Links for many years and recently funded them to extend the hours of a support worker who specialises in providing training opportunities to help their clients gain confidence, make friends, and learn new skills. Share Mental Health Turning Corners Read more By using football as a means to come together, this group provides local men with a safe and friendly place to open up about their mental health. The sport can help with improving fitness and moving on from drug addiction, while the Whatsapp group gives mental and emotional support at difficult times. The group is breaking barriers around men’s mental health. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Unpuzzled Theatre Company C.I.C Read more They aim to bring people together of all backgrounds through performance, to break down barriers in the community, and increase well-being. They also travel around the district to different organisations, such as schools, youth clubs, and family centres. We awarded them funding to adapt a traditional Ukrainian folktale into an interactive theatre workshop for children, young people and families. This supported community cohesion and building understanding locally of a different culture, and for the refugees taking part, it aids their learning of the English language and helped them to make friends. Share Disability Upwards with Downs Read more We awarded them funding for their Speech Therapy service over the next three years to help improve the wellbeing of their clients. Peggy Slade, from Upwards with Downs said: “Every person with Down Syndrome has some problems with communication due to their learning delay. If they cannot speak and be understood they can develop feelings of frustration, anger and anxiety.” Share Children and Young People Uttlesford Buffy Bus Read more Uttlesford Buffy Bus is a rural, roaming playschool which travels to villages in the District providing children, their families and carers with a fun and welcoming place to meet. Trained play-leaders provide on-board learning sessions helping the children to develop skills that supports their transition into Primary education. We support the running costs of the Buffy Bus, covering necessities such as insurance and fuel, to keep the project moving. Share Education, Training and Advice Uttlesford Citizen’s Advice Bureau (CAB) Read more Many advisers are volunteers who provide free, knowledgeable support through face-to-face, phone and email services, as well as online through their website. We have provided grants to support the network of offices that operate in Essex and helped Uttlesford CAB to employ a paid disability benefits specialist. The role is to train and co-ordinate a team of home visit volunteers to sensitively support people living with disabilities and long-term illnesses to complete complex application forms for benefits. Where there are concerns about the fairness of a rejection, the specialist works with the client to appeal this decision. Share Community Safety UTurn4support Read more Their educational and awareness sessions explain the dangers and consequences of being involved in violent crime, as well as providing support and advice for young people. The knowledge and practical avoidance skills they share help to prevent them from becoming involved in or becoming a victim of crime. A grant from us funded a youth worker to run their well-being programme, which helps to build the young people’s social skills and support unit. Following their involvement, the young people feel more confident in their own abilities to manage conflicts, communicate to others, and express their needs in seeking support; enabling them to make healthier choices, build resilience, and have hope for future education or employment. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Vibe Southend Read more Run by local parents, Vibe delivers multimedia activity sessions to adults with learning disabilities who would like a space to express themselves through music, art, design, IT and gaming with other adults who have similar experiences as them. They also offer a sensory room, which has mood lighting, tactile equipment, and is ideal if their beneficiaries are feeling stressed. A grant from us has supported the cost of their rent, to enable beneficiaries to have ongoing support, continue to build self-esteem, and develop their skills. Share Fairness and Equality Voluntary Action Epping Forest (VAEF) Read more Voluntary Action Epping Forest (VAEF) has supported the most vulnerable people across the Epping Forest District during the COVID-19 crisis. Jacqui Foile from VAEF said: “Using our volunteer expertise we rapidly set up a district-wide community response to the coronavirus outbreak. “We co-ordinated volunteers and businesses to support those in crisis. Our services include telephone support, shopping, collecting prescriptions and providing welfare support and advice.” Our funding paid for the additional staff salaries and running costs of this vital operation, and to help cover VAEF’s reduced income due to cancelled fundraising events and loss of chargeable services. Share Fairness and Equality Volunteering Matters Read more One such program they run, was realised with help by a grant from ECF. This was for a mentorship service in Southend that supports young people aging out of the care system. They build trusting relationships where the young people have someone to turn to for help with navigating life as an adult without typical family support, and this helps to decrease social isolation. They also host events where young people can build friendships and receive peer support. For over twenty years this group has been working with vulnerable families, helping those who are disadvantaged, and those who are disabled. Their ethos focuses on creating real change and empowering the community to help themselves. Share Education, Training and Advice Volya Ukraina Read more The driving force behind Volya Ukraina, is that everyone deserves help and second chances when forced to leave their home country. They have a community hub in Colchester to support refugees and we helped to fund the running costs for this. The group provides a safe space for those adjusting to life in the UK, peer support from others in a similar position, and help with any translation or paperwork so they can become better settled and start their new lives. A little help goes a long way for those who have left everything behind, and Volya Ukraina is helping them to start over. Share Children and Young People Waltham Abbey Youth 2000 Read more They provide a safe environment where their opportunities, projects, and counselling offered to young people helps them to develop into adults. We supported them with the core costs of their counselling services that helps young people to better understand how to cope with their emotions. This aims to improve their behaviour in the classroom, regulate their emotions, reduces unauthorised absences from school and, overall, increases their future prospects. Share Children and Young People Walton Pre School Read more The grant helped to support their core costs, helping the Pre School to continue providing stimulating learning opportunities, and a support service for families. They employed additional staff to provide personalised guidance for each family, to help them access services or to supply them with any food or clothing parcels they may need. All activities promote the development of the children’s social, emotional and communication skills, which have been noticeably impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic isolation. Share Fairness and Equality Welcome to the UK Read more They offer free English as a Second Language classes, workshops and one-on-one support for parents and children, as well as a variety of social events. They also provide a creche to allow children to have fun while parents can socialise at friendship group sessions. A grant from us supported the salary of their CEO to enable this vital work to continue. They have now extended this support to Ukrainian refugees, to support their transition into the UK culture, help them to reach out to statutory services, and make friends with other people who have had similar experiences. Share Environment Wellbeing At Garon Park CIO Read more We supported their community garden which offers residents an outdoor space to meet and enjoy nature. Being outdoors and getting hands on with plants aids their physical and mental health and also provides engaging volunteering opportunities, especially when they donate grown fruit and vegetables back to the community. Participants have shared how this gives them a feeling of pride, purpose and achievement. Share Rural Projects Wellies On Read more From their 40-acre working farm in Abberton they run hands-on farming activities and provide mental health support in small groups or on a one-to-one basis. Our support has helped them to employ a part-time mental health working who will encourage people to get outdoors, be hands on and talk about their feelings. Share Environment Wilderness Foundation UK Read more They reach over 8,500 people a year, providing outdoor immersive experiences, harnessing the power of wilderness and nature to transform vulnerable lives and empower people, in return, to conserve nature. We funded their ‘TurnAround’ 9 month vulnerable youth programme to provide workshops, 1-2-1 mentoring and wilderness trails helping build resilience, communication and employability skills. This programme provides the opportunity for young people aged 16-21yrs, from challenging backgrounds, to rebuild their self-esteem, build a connection to the environment and create aspirations for the future. Share Older communities Witham Town Luncheon Club Read more The club found that older people who live alone are less likely to cook a hot meal for themselves and this, combined with poor diet alternatives, was having a damaging effect on their health. Our support helped them to pay the rental costs for the hall where the club meets. Share Education, Training and Advice Wivenhoe Bike Kitchen Read more The Bike Kitchen is a hub for local people who want to use cycling as a cost-effective way to get out and about, and to make friends with similar interests. The group offers a premises to learn about repairs and participate in cycle rides together to keep fit. We helped the Bike Kitchen cover the rent of their premises so that they could dedicate more time and effort to teaching the town about the joys of cycling. Share Arts, Culture and Heritage Wivenhoe Youth Choir Read more The choir is the only one of its kind in the area, and provides collaborative experiences in music for the young people who participate. They engage young people in music, ensuring that cost is not an object to those that want to get involved. Share Fairness and Equality Women of Grace Read more They engage with women and girls through online workshops and weekly face to face wellbeing safe hubs, helping to raise awareness of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM). This enables them to provide guidance and wellness services to those who have experienced FGM, and to work towards ending the abusive practice. Women of Grace support women of all races, backgrounds and religions, and we supported them to provide this vital education and care in West Essex. Share Rural Projects Writtle Bowling Club Read more The club, based in a conservation area in the picturesque village of Writtle, has sole responsibility for maintaining its boundary wall, parts of which date back to Tudor times. Investigations revealed that a section of the wall needed extensive work to prevent possible collapse. The club made an application to us and received funding from the Bartleet Family Fund, as the project fitted perfectly with the fund’s aims. Wendy Harvey from Writtle Bowling Club, said: “We appreciate that we are in a conservation area with an historically important wall and take our heritage very seriously. But maintaining the wall is a huge burden and if we had to meet all the costs ourselves it would take us to rock bottom. “We knew the wall wasn’t stable and it was a real worry that it might fall on to people walking by or on to cars in the road. I remember lying awake one night when we had some hefty storms, wondering if the wall was still going to be there in the morning! “We are so very grateful for the grant from the Bartleet Family Fund towards the cost of repairs to the wall – it was a real lifesaver for us.” Share Older communities Wyvern Community Transport Read more They came to us in need of funding when their mini-bus was written off in an accident. It was essential that they were back up and running to full capacity as soon as possible because they take people, typically 65+ and living in semi-rural areas, on trips for social, medical, study, shopping and entertainment purposes. Our grant enabled them to buy a new 16-seater minibus. Share Environment Yantlet Garden Club Read more Led by the residents, Yantlet Garden Club has built an award-winning garden that is an oasis for the community that live there, and those who take part include people with disabilities or who require additional support. They have built relationships with local organisations which have donated plants and garden accessories, and they have hosted visits for local charities, the council and schools. A grant from us has funded the cost of a gardener to regularly maintain the green space so that residents can continue to socialise, relax, and get involved with the gardening when they are able to. Share Children and Young People Yellow Door Youth Hub Read more We supported the salary of their drug and alcohol misuse worker to help young people from Canvey Island and the surrounding area s to make the right life decisions. This work includes running drug and alcohol awareness workshops in schools and offering one – to – one support for those that are struggling, and their parents. The charity also provides a wide range of activities including a performing arts group, a youth club and a sports club. Share Children and Young People YMCA Essex Read more Their work includes operating a nursery for children aged 2 – 5, o ut of s chool c lubs , holiday programmes , youth groups, providing supported accommodation for young people, training opportunities, and more. A grant has helped them to provide moving in packs for young people in Colchester who were former ly homeless . These include essential household items such as bedding, towels, a microwave and cutlery, which helps to get them set up and to become self-sufficient . Share