Essex Charities supporting mental health recovery 10th October 2025 4 to 10% of people in Essex will experience mental illness in their lifetime. Mixed anxiety and depression have been estimated to cause one fifth of days lost from work in the UK. One of the major causes of social isolation today. High rates of suicide exist currently in our local community and in some areas above the national average. How Essex Charities are supporting recovery through employment Mental wellbeing in the workplace is becoming an increasingly important concern for employers, as part of their responsibilities towards their staff. Businesses are not only being asked to recognise the importance of mental health but are also being encouraged to actively support it. Stress, anxiety and loneliness are among the top causes of long-term sick leave and the economic and human cost of untreated mental ill health is becoming ever more apparent. In Essex local charities, with vital financial backing from the Coombewood Amenity Fund, are providing life-changing support to those facing mental health challenges, helping them to return to meaningful employment. The independent charitable trust, Essex Community Foundation (ECF), has been responsible for overseeing the Coombewood Amenity Fund since 2003, giving grants to local charities working with people who are struggling with their mental health. The grants help organisations to provide training, education and personal development programmes, equipping people with the confidence and skills they need to take positive steps toward employment. The origins of the fund date back to 1971 when Essex County Council established the Coombewood Centre in response to the need for structured employment opportunities for those experiencing mental health difficulties. At the time, the centre operated as a sheltered workshop where people could become involved by producing leather goods. A proportion of income from the sale of these goods went into the newly established Coombewood Amenity Fund. Its purpose was clear, to provide practical help to people with mental health problems and support them in finding sustainable employment. Although changes in government policy in the early 2000s altered how employment support was delivered, the core mission of Coombewood lived on. In 2002, the centre became a broader Resource Centre to meet the diverse and evolving needs of its clients. Recognising the enduring importance of employment to recovery and wellbeing, former clients and staff expressed a strong desire to see the Coombewood Amenity Fund continue. With Essex County Council’s endorsement, the Fund’s administration was transferred to ECF the following year, ensuring its long-term future. Today, the Coombewood Amenity Fund stands as a beacon of community resilience and support and, with an invested value of nearly £210,000, it has awarded over £225,000 in grants to charities across Basildon, Brentwood, Castle Point, Rochford, Southend, and Thurrock. These grants have helped countless individuals regain confidence, build new skills, and ultimately, re-enter the workforce. The charities supported by the Fund are not just offering courses or training, they are restoring lives. By focusing on personal development, emotional resilience, and employability, they help people move from isolation and despair to independence and hope. Where Community Meets Mental Health Essex-based charity, Trust Links, has received support from the Coombewood Amenity Fund. It offers therapeutic gardening, recovery classes, social activities, employability support, training, environmental workshops and more to around 4,000 people per year from sites in Southend, Castle Point, Rochford, Braintree and Basildon. “Mental health doesn’t exist in a vacuum,” says Matt King, CEO of Trust Links. “It’s tied to work, relationships, identity, and community. That’s why our approach is holistic, connecting people not just to services, but to purpose.” Trust Links’ Growing Together projects are particularly impactful, blending environmental engagement with skill-building and mental restoration. Participants often report increased confidence, improved wellbeing, and, in many cases, a route back into volunteering or employment. Importantly, Trust Links is also working directly with employers, providing Mental Health First Aid and Suicide First Aid accredited training as well as wellbeing workshops and partnerships that help businesses support staff through mental health challenges. “We want to help businesses move beyond awareness to action,” says Matt. “Because healthy employees aren’t just happier, they’re more productive, creative, and loyal.” Mill Race Foundation is a small charity based in Chelmsford that helps people who suffer mental or physical health problems with their recovery and rehabilitation. They received £7,250 from the Coombewood Amenity Fund to help them deliver educational and work -based activities in furniture repair, upcycling, restoration, and recognised qualifications in cabinet making, French polishing and upholstery, all in a therapeutic setting. New Life Wood received £8,565 to deliver woodwork skills training, general wellbeing and support to vulnerable adults based in the Basildon area. By offering placement opportunities New Life Wood helps them to learn carpentry skills, gain confidence and have a pathway to a meaningful life. To find out how your business can support local charities through Essex Community Foundation, contact Perry Norton, Head of Development on 01245 355947 or email perry@essexcf.org.uk Recent News Essex Charities supporting mental health recovery 10th October 2025 Building a Family Legacy with Fundbuilder: Gail’s Story 22nd September 2025 Rainbow Services Helping Charities Thrive In Harlow 22nd September 2025 Could You Contribute to Our Finance & Investment Committee? 16th September 2025 Become a Trustee – Make a Difference in Essex. 12th September 2025 Empowering Essex’s Voluntary Sector 4th September 2025