Charity History The WCIT Charity is responsible for the charitable activities of the Worshipful Company of Information Technologists and is honoured to have been supported from the beginning of its journey by IT industry leaders such as Dame Stephanie Shirley CH. The Charity’s mission is to use IT skills to make a difference and change lives. In its brief history, it has achieved a huge amount including helping to set up two independent charities – the Charity IT Association and Lifelites – as well as establishing, in partnership with the Mercers’ company, a brand-new school in Hammersmith. It has supported hundreds of individual causes through grants totalling almost £4.5 million. What we do The WCIT Charity works with a wide range of non-profit organisations and aims to help them get the best from IT. It is committed to strengthening communities and unlocking the power of technology for good. Every year, it supports a variety of charities through its grant-making programme as well as offering pro bono support to a multitude of organisations. Its work focuses on the following four key areas: Enhancing opportunity for young people through more effective education. Improving the quality of life for those who are disadvantaged, disabled or socially excluded Helping charities get the best out of IT Improving the public’s understanding of IT and its capabilities AI4C — A WCIT Charity Initiative What is it? AI4C is a Learning Exchange created by the WCIT Charity in late 2018 as part of the WCIT Charity IT Award. Its aim is to collaboratively collect and share best practice in the use of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI/ML) for the benefit of the charity sector. Who are its members? We are a group of people from charities using or planning to use AI/ML and members of the WCIT who share their expertise and practical experience for the benefit of member charities. Current charity members include CALM, Missing People, AbilityNet, the Brain Tumour Charity, Cancer Research UK, Samaritans, Family Lives, Asthma UK, Mencap, Family Fund, Humankind, NSPCC, Back-Up and Carers UK. What do we do? We hold monthly workshops to discuss specific topics and share lessons learnt. Experts in IT, academics and leading industry practitioners speak at our topical quarterly events. Specific problems and potential solutions are discussed through our monthly workshop, informal meetings, via our secure IT platform or through “surgeries. How do I join? Any charity engaged with or planning to use AI/ML and who is willing to share their experiences and lessons learnt is welcome to join.