News Every year since 2021, the WCIT golfers have competed against the Royal Signals golfers for the Cito Cup. The Cup was founded as an opportunity to build closer fellowship ties between the livery and the corps. Played as a series of pairs matches one day each year, the event is eagerly contested by both sides. […] On 13th September, a select group of Members was trained as archers in the morning and in action with experienced bowmen and women in the afternoon. All proved to be highly creditable fast learners. After their introduction to and tuition in the use of beautifully handmade English longbows, the group participated with other archers in […] This year, the WCIT team has twice entered the Bank of England’s “Hare & Hounds” event – having never before entered a team in the 45 years that it has been running! The event is a mix of treasure hunt, cryptic crossword, pub crawl and time trial and is run by a team of Bank […] It is with great sadness that the WCIT notes the death of Roger Graham OBE, Master of this Company in 2004/5. Roger was known in City circles primarily for his work in growing BIS, the business which provided MIDAS banking software to many financial institutions. Having left BIS as chairman and chief executive in the […] The Worshipful Company of Information Technologists (WCIT) is saddened to learn of the passing of Dame Stephanie Shirley CH. “Steve”, as she was widely known, was Master of the WCIT in 1992/3. As such, she was one of the pioneering founders of this Company. She had a very clear vision of the social impact which […] On Thursday 31 July I was privileged to represent the Master at Blandford Camp for the conclusion of the Yeoman of Signals Course 79, which draws participation from the Royal Signals, Special Forces and Royal Marines. The day marks the end of a course containing 44 weeks of technical trade training and evaluation, academic modules […] AI and gender diversity signal a bright future in coding: Started in 2016 by the WCIT and steadily expanding each year, the Young Coders International competition completed for 2025 on 26th June with the Master, Gary Moore, presenting prizes virtually to the winning teams including International in Turkey, and to the judges from Park Junior […] On 28 May, after a project lasting a year, the Financial Services Technology panel unveiled its White paper on the status of Operational Resilience in the sector, at an event at the WCIT Hall attended by the Master and Junior Warden. Steve Yates, who led the project for the panel, took us through the findings […] When the Lord Mayor asked the WCIT to organise two events at the Mansion House as part of his Growth Unleashed programme, I felt it was a great honour and testament to the amazing surfeit of skills and experience of our members, as well as to the reputation of WCIT – the City Livery Company […] Presented to WCIT Medicine & Health Panel – Feb 19th, 2025 by Gilbert Pant and Ken Hoffman We were very fortunate to welcome experts from both the UK and the US to discuss the persistent challenges and future potential of electronic health records (EHRs) in modern healthcare. Gilbert Pant is one of our liverymen and […]