The Court The Company’s structure mirrors the tradition of long-standing livery companies. A Master is elected every year, as are three supporting Wardens. The Master chairs Court, which is the governing body of the Company, and this meets quarterly. The Clerk is the “Chief Executive”, reporting to the Master and Court, managing the Company and the Hall team. Gary Moore, Master Gary Moore joined the Company on 17 July 1996, initially through its volunteering panel. He went on to Chair the Pro-Bono & Projects Panel and to Chair the Grants Committee of our Charity. Gary has been a Court member since 10 October 2011. Gary is a Chartered Engineer (IET), having begun his career as a software engineer. Gary’s main career experience has been in Sales & Marketing in global network and datacenter companies, specialising in the financial services sector. In 2024, Gary stood down as CEO of a national charity AbilityNet which focuses on ensuring people with disabilities are able to benefit from technology at home, work and in education. Gus Machado, Senior Warden Gus Machado joined the Company in 1999, initially a member of the volunteering and pro bono panel. He is the current Chair of the Investment Committee and the Charity Fund Raising Committee. He is also a trustee of the WCIT Charity. Gus has been a Court member since 2012, serving on Court as a Court Liveryman and then a Court Assistant. Professionally Gus has over 35 years’ experience in building IT businesses, currently in Data Analytics and Machine Learning. He is an investor in companies, helping young tech entrepreneurs build businesses. He is a Fellow of the British Computer Society and the Royal Society of Arts. Paul Finch, Junior Warden Paul Finch is an entrepreneurial CEO who has founded three technology companies, and conducted several acquisitions and company exits. In 2016 Paul founded a cancer charity raising funds for research to improve outcomes for Bowel Cancer patients. Within the WCIT, he founded the Careers & Homelessness Panels, and served as Chair of the Staff Development & Remuneration Committee. He has sat on the Entrepreneurship Panel for 15 years and more recently rekindled the Medicine and Health Panel. Iain Mitchell KC, Panels Warden Iain Mitchell KC was called to the Scottish Bar in 1976, took silk in 1992 and was called to the English Bar in 2012. He is qualified as a Mediator by The Mediation Bureau and Mediation Forum Ireland. He is Chair of the Scottish Society for Computers and Law, and serves on the IT Panel and Regulatory Working Group of the Bar Council of England & Wales. He is a UK expert on the IT Committee of the Council of Bars and Law Societies of Europe, serving as past Chair and currently Vice-Chair of the Surveillance Working Group. He is the Chair of the new technologies committee of the Association of European Lawyers and also Chair of the Legal Panel of Whistleblowers UK. He is an Honorary Lecturer in IT Law at Münster University. Kerri Mansfield JP, Deputy Master Kerri Mansfield has worked in IT as a trainer, coach and project manager in the financial and technology sectors. She was awarded a BSc in Social Studies from the Open University and gained her Masters in Professional Development from Middlesex University in 2019. Kerri is an Honorary Fellow of the Coaching Academy, a Fellow of the BCS and a Fellow of the Learning and Performance Institute and a winner at the National Mentoring Awards in 2019. Within the WCIT, Kerri has been Chair of the Events and Careers Panels and the Charitable Fundraising Committee. She has been instrumental in the setup of the coaching initiative with the Royal Corps of Signals, Judicial Panel and the Equality Committee. Past Masters Robert Wirszycz Alistair Fulton Mark Holford Ray Long CB Lady Parmley (Wendy) Dr Stefan Fafinski JP DL Chris Histed Sir David Wootton Nicholas Birtles Court Assistants Nicholas Claydon Paul Excell Sheila Flavell Michelle Gurney Roy Isbell Paul Jagger Steve Smith Elizabeth Sparrow Court Liverymen Victoria Baines Peter Cordery Danielle Green Jon Kidd Seatal Patel Vicki Schmidt Jason Scott-Taggart Peter Tero Dawn Wright Hon Treasurer Liveryman Chris Haden