Military Affiliations WCIT has affiliations with each Branch of the Armed Forces, UK Strategic Command and the Armed Forces Cadet movement. Royal Corps of Signals The Company’s oldest affiliation, dating from 1992, resides in the Army and is with the Royal Corps of Signals, the Army’s ICT specialists. The WCIT has recognised the technical skills and expertise of the Corps from the very beginning of the relationship through the presentation of the WCIT Apprentice medal to the Information Services Apprentice of the Year and a salver to the Yeoman of Signals Course Presentation winners. Military skills are similarly recognised through the presentation of a cup to the Best Shot at the annual Gordon’s Cup event. Bringing these skills together, the annual Through Award is presented to the soldier or non-commissioned officer who has made an exceptional contribution to the provision of Information Services during operations. In addition to recognition through awards, the WCIT works actively to promote professional development through our Professional Horizons initiative and help those leaving the Corps with career transition events and mentoring. MoD Cyber In 2017, WCIT affiliated with the Joint Forces Cyber Group (JFCG) – a partnership initiated by the WCIT’s Information Security Panel. With the Defence changes to JFCG in 2020, the affiliation changed to MoD Cyber incorporating two elements, Defence Digital and the National Cyber Force (NCF). This has progressed to a relationship across the whole of UK Strategic Command who own the Joint Military Cyber and Information initiatives and capabilities across UK Defence. HMS Collingwood In 2020 we established our first Royal Navy affiliation with HMS Collingwood, a shore station which is home to the Royal Navy’s Maritime Warfare School and is its largest training establishment. Most aspects of the training carried out relate directly or directly to the use of technology. As well as providing access to our membership of IT professionals, WCIT presents the annual Endeavour award to the best performing rating who has attended the WE200 LET Communications and Information Systems Specialist professional career course. Maritime Cyber Support Unit (MCSU) In 2024 we further strengthened our RN relationship by welcoming the MCSU as one of 2 new affiliations. The MCSU delivers supports intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance equipment and information services across the RN. It also provides the Fleet’s Cyber Protection Teams. No 1 Radio School RAF In 2024 we welcomed the RAF into the Technologist’s fold through our latest affiliation with No1 Radio School RAF who provide training for all RAF Aviators to enable Information Advantage to be delivered through Cyber and Space capabilities. The Company maintains affiliations with two Cadet units: 46F Kensington Squadron Air Training Corps, and Beckenham and Penge Sea Cadets. Armed Forces Committee The Company’s Armed Forces Committee was created in 2020 to establish a focal point for coordination within and among the affiliates and was restructured in 2024 to explicitly recognise that technology is a core capability of the UK’s Armed Forces that the WCIT can actively support through the 4 Livery Pillars of Charity, Education, Industry and Fellowship. Armed Forces Covenant WCIT was proud to affirm this commitment to the Armed Forces by signing the Armed Forces Covenant July 2022.