Sign up for our newsletter to receive the latest updates on funding, events we are hosting or supporting, estate related news, and more! New Grant Programmes Launched For 2025 Following a strategic review, we are excited to introduce a refreshed approach to grant-making — and two new funding programmes are now open! We’re excited to share some big news: following a strategic review, we are launching a refreshed approach to our grant-making – and it starts with two new funding programmes now open for applications! As a local grant-giving charity, we’re proud to support communities across Bournemouth, Christchurch, Poole, East Dorset and Purbeck. Over the past decade, we’ve awarded over £10 million to hundreds of inspiring organisations, helping to drive lasting change in our region. In 2024 alone, we granted over £1 million to more than 70 projects – from creative arts programmes for d/Deaf and disabled young people, to the refurbishment of community facilities, recruitment of key staff, development of wellbeing events, and contributing to the construction of inclusive playgrounds, skateparks, accessible footpaths and more. We’re evolving our grant-making to ensure we remain as effective and impactful as possible. Our new strategy introduces two redesigned grant programmes, with more launching on the future. This phased approach allows us to better meet the changing needs of the community and voluntary sector. What’s Open Now? Small Grants Programme Grants of up to £5,000 For organisations with an annual turnover under £250,000 £100,000 total funding available Designed for smaller charities and community groups Decisions expected late October / early November 2025 Supports: Core/operating costs Project costs Small capital items (e.g., equipment, minor repairs) Core/operating costs Project costs Small capital items (e.g., equipment, minor repairs) Capital Grants Programme Grants over £10,000 For organisations with at least one year of signed accounts Must show a clear capital investment strategy £250,000 total funding available Supports facilities, buildings, and equipment purchases Decisions expected late November / early December 2025 Supports: P urchase, refurbishment or repair of buildings or physical spaces , investment in physical or IT assets, accessibility improvements P urchase, refurbishment or repair of buildings or physical spaces , investment in physical or IT assets, accessibility improvements Both programmes are now open — and we warmly invite eligible organisations to apply! Apply Now Looking Ahead We understand that some organisations may find their current funding needs are not aligned with our new programmes . We know this may be disappointing, and want to reassure you that the changes reflect feedback from grantees and to ensure we are a more impactful funder. We are planning to launch more programmes in the future, so please subscribe to our email newsletter to stay updated. Deadline to Apply Sunday, 31 August 2025 11:59pm We encourage early applications and are happy to help if you need any guidance before submitting. Let’s Keep the Conversation Going We’re here to support you. If you have any questions about eligibility, your application, or just want to talk something through – don’t hesitate to get in touch . Latest news stories Autumn Equinox Magic – bring your creativity and sense of adventure Summer Crown Making Workshop & Fireside Storytelling Talbot Village Trust Honoured with Community Hero Award by MYTIME Young Carers