Sign up for our newsletter to receive the latest updates on funding, events we are hosting or supporting, estate related news, and more! Talbot Village Trust Supports 36 Local Charities Across South-East Dorset with £487,455 in Grants “It is always a privilege to support organisations working tirelessly to improve lives in our community." Talbot Village Trust is pleased to announce that £487,455 in grant funding has been awarded to 36 charitable organisations across Bournemouth, Poole, Christchurch, Purbeck, and East Dorset. These grants, part of the Trust’s latest funding cycle, will support a diverse range of initiatives aimed at improving wellbeing and strengthening communities. Grants ranging from £500 to £40,000 have been awarded to charities working across multiple sectors, including mental health support, youth programmes, disability services, and community development. Nicholas Ashley-Cooper, Chairman of Talbot Village Trust, commented: “ It is always a privilege to support organisations working tirelessly to improve lives in our community. While the needs are always great, we hope this funding will help make a meaningful impact across different sectors, including education, youth programmes, and charitable support services. We’re grateful for the opportunity to contribute to their efforts .” GRANT RECEPIENTS A selection of this year’s grant recipients includes: BOWRA Foundation : £7,310 to support a year-long programme of activities at Hamworthy Park for stroke survivors and individuals living with brain injuries. Diverse City : £40,000 for a two-year creative performing arts programme designed for d/Deaf, disabled, and disadvantaged individuals aged 16-35. Home-Start Wessex : £7,075 to fund the “Kinson Haven Family Group,” supporting disadvantaged families with young children experiencing mental health challenges and isolation. Mosaic – Supporting Bereaved Children: £18,969 to contribute to the charity’s running costs. Poole Communities Trust : £15,000 towards the design and build of a skatepark on Turlin Moor, Poole, ensuring a further boost to help achieve their fundraising target. PramaLife : £11,600 to recruit a part-time project coordinator to manage volunteers supporting carers of individuals living with dementia and to establish a new peer support group for dementia carers in Christchurch over 12 months. Safe & Sound Dorset : £31,000 to cover rent and part of the manager’s salary for 12 months supporting the charity’s work with isolated, vulnerably housed and marginalised women living in the community. YMCA Bournemouth : £5,000 to support the delivery of free and paid one-to-one counselling sessions, available in person, online, and over the phone. COMMUNITY IMPACT The impact of these grants is already being felt by the organisations and individuals they support. “ We are incredibly grateful to Talbot Village Trust for their generous support which will enable us to provide physical activities for people living with the effects of stroke and brain injury, at Hamworthy Park. This grant is a vital part of the work we do empowering our beneficiaries to drive their own recovery journey, building confidence and hope for the next stage of their lives. ,” said Sam Mosley, Operations Manager at BOWRA Foundation . Sally Smith, Grants Partnership Manager at Home-Start Wessex , added, “ We’re so grateful for this grant which will fund our long-standing ‘Haven’ group in Kinson to stay open. At a time when demand is overwhelming and local families are under immense pressure, this group is vital in providing a nurturing space for parents and their young children to receive help and support. ” For Chris Beale, Programmes Director at PramaLife , the funding will have a direct impact on local carers: “When we told the carers we work with that Talbot Village Trust would be supporting PramaLife they were all very happy; being supported to share all the skills and experience they have developed as carers with their peers is incredibly important to them .” Safe and Sound Dorset Director, Kriss Cocomazzi, shared how the funding will enhance their community hub: “ We could not wish for a better start to 2025 for The Well Coffee Lounge: the community hub for Safe and Sound Dorset. We are incredibly grateful to Talbot Village Trust for recognising how valuable community well-being and social inclusion are for our women and girls and the local public. This funding means we can not only continue but enhance the many activities we do: Offer affordable food, and a warm welcoming space for everyone who visits, and increase volunteer opportunities to enhance skills and confidence .” LOOKING AHEAD Talbot Village Trust remains dedicated to supporting initiatives that drive meaningful change. As part of this commitment, the Trust is set to launch new grant-giving programmes in 2025, incorporating feedback from both applicants and awardees. For more details on funding opportunities, subscribe to our newsletter or visit our Grants page. (With thanks for permission to reproduce the images – clockwise from top left: Home Start Wessex, PramaLife, Bowra Foundation and Safe and Sound Dorset) Latest news stories Autumn Equinox Magic – bring your creativity and sense of adventure New Grant Programmes Launched For 2025 Summer Crown Making Workshop & Fireside Storytelling