Sign up for our newsletter to receive the latest updates on funding, events we are hosting or supporting, estate related news, and more! Grants Extraordinary places, people and opportunities provide a transformative means for change. We offer a range of funding, supporting capital projects, initiatives that meet with our strategic criteria, and annual contributions to causes within our area of benefit. Funding Programmes 2025: Small Grants Programme: Up to £5,000 per grant Supports: Core/operating costs, project costs, s mall capital items (e.g., equipment, minor repairs). Total funding pot: £100,000 Open to organisations with an a nnual turnover under £250,000 Decision: mid/end of October Deadline: 31 August 2025 Capital Programme: Requests of £10,000 or more Supports: P urchase, refurbishment or repair of buildings or physical spaces , investment in physical or IT assets, accessibility improvements Total funding pot: £250,000 Open to organisations that can demonstrate the capital expenditure is planned and integrated into their broader organisational strategy Providing a minimum 1 year of signed accounts Decision: end of November Deadline: 31 August 2025 Annual regular giving to Talbot Village St Mark’s CE Primary School St Mark’s CE Church University Chaplaincy To Apply Our Grant Programmes are now closed. For more information, visit our FAQ section . Information about future grant rounds will be announced via our email newsletter and on our website. To be the first to hear about upcoming opportunities, please subscribe to our newsletter. If you’d like to apply for a direct grant, your scheme must support local people. When you apply for Capital Grants Programme, your organisation will need to prove that it has - or can raise at least 25% match funding. “We wanted to learn more about the world we live in and what this may look like in the future, hearing from experts in the immediate area, as well as those living and working across the whole county.” — Nick Ashley-Cooper, Chairman Our ambitions Systemic change Address those more complex and difficult problems facing our society recognising that long term systemic change is more challenging than programmatic funding. Support of marginalised groups Ensure that marginalised groups are not failed or hidden from view and amplifying the voice of those less often seen and heard. Cross-sector collaboration Work more closely with others to support charities and related organisations, enhancing cross-sector coordination and communication. In 2021, we explored some of the key issues facing Dorset, both now and in the future. Download the 2050 Report Our Dorset 2050 report captures the voices of those living and working in our area, as well as those of over 70 leading experts and practitioners in areas of health and wellbeing, social care, charity, and local government. Featured impact stories Enhancing outdoor learning at Upton Methodist Church It’s game-time for sports and wellbeing at Poole Grammar