Sign up for our newsletter to receive the latest updates on funding, events we are hosting or supporting, estate related news, and more! Talbot Village Trust funds vital support of children’s wellbeing in schools Talbot Village Trust has donated a sum of £10,000 to Life Education Wessex to deliver its ‘Skills For Life’ programme in schools across the conurbation. Life Education Wessex’s ‘Skills For Life’ programme teaches children how to look after their bodies, mental health and how to avoid risky behaviours that may be potentially damaging to their […] Talbot Village Trust has donated a sum of £10,000 to Life Education Wessex to deliver its ‘Skills For Life’ programme in schools across the conurbation. Life Education Wessex’s ‘Skills For Life’ programme teaches children how to look after their bodies, mental health and how to avoid risky behaviours that may be potentially damaging to their wellbeing. The charity is well-known for its Life Buses that travel to schools and deliver sessions with its famous giraffe puppet, Harold. However, the pandemic resulted in the buses no longer being used due to the lack of sufficient ventilation needed to be Covid Secure. Talbot Village Trust’s donation has allowed Life Education Wessex to develop alternative delivery methods of its workshops, using digital technology zooming directly into classrooms (SCARF Live Online) and in school classrooms (LifeBase). Lorraine Hewitt, Fundraising Manager of Life Education Wessex, said: “Before Covid-19, the charity was going from strength to strength, with increased numbers of children reached with our message of healthy living. The pandemic meant school bookings were cancelled, staff were furloughed, events were no longer going ahead, and we had a real concern for our future.” “Thanks to the valued support of Talbot Village Trust, we were able to resume our vital services virtually and in classroom bubbles. We are so grateful to be able to continue empowering young people to make positive choices and keep them safe, healthy, happy and achieving their best.” Nicholas Ashley-Cooper, Chairman of Talbot Village Trust, said: “The work Life Education Wessex do for children and schools across the county and beyond has made them a huge asset to our community. Their workshops are such a key part of young people’s school lives, so we’re extremely pleased to be able to give them the funding they needed to deliver their programme around the obstacles of the pandemic. “To ensure young people are staying safe, well, and emotionally stable during such a turbulent time has never been more crucial than the past two years. We’re very proud to be a part of this.” To find out more about Life Education Wessex, please visit: www.lifeeducationwessex.org.uk To apply for funding from the Talbot Village trust, visit www.talbotvillagetrust.org to submit an online application. The Trust meets biannually and is accepting applications for funding from both previous and new applicants in the area before the Trustees meet in Spring 2022. Latest news stories Autumn Equinox Magic – bring your creativity and sense of adventure New Grant Programmes Launched For 2025 Summer Crown Making Workshop & Fireside Storytelling