Partner projects Partner Projects Across England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales, we partner practical, powerful wellbeing initiatives that support the people behind the uniform. Whether it’s trauma-informed training for air ambulance crews, peer support programmes in hospices, or outdoor retreats that reconnect emergency responders with nature, our support goes where they’re needed most. If your project strengthens the mental health and emotional resilience of the Blue Light community, we want to hear from you. Find out more about projects that have received funding from us: Service Dogs Conference and Awards 2025 News Celebrating Wellbeing and Service Dogs Last week, our CEO Emma Woods-Bolger attended the Service Dogs UK Conference & Dogs in Service Awards. The event was a moving celebration of International Dogs Day 2025 News Celebrating International Dogs Day Oscar Kilo Team This International Dog Day, we were delighted to welcome Oscar Kilo UK and their wellbeing dogs to Blue Light Card HQ. The Helping Lifeboat Crews Heal After Tragedy. Supported Projects Helping Lifeboat Crews Heal After Tragedy. The Blue Light Card Foundation supported a mental health training programme to enhance wellbeing and resilience among volunteer lifeboat crew members based How a Crisis Line Helps Our Firefighters Heal. Supported Projects How a Crisis Line Helps Our Firefighters Heal. The Blue Light Card Foundation supported the creation and operation of a dedicated crisis line for members of the UK PTSD Dogs Changing the Lives of Police Officers. Supported Projects PTSD Dogs Changing the Lives of Police Officers. Emotional wellbeing support looks different for everyone. Whether it’s a chat with a colleague or time with a wellbeing dog, Mind Over Mountains News Reset with Mind Over Mountains Guided by nature, supported by experts. Emergency responders face extraordinary pressures every day, yet often struggle to find time or space to care for Partnering with Roald Dahl Nurses to Support Seriously Ill Children News Partnering with Roald Dahl Nurses to Support Seriously Ill Children The Blue Light Card Foundation is proud to announce a new partnership with Roald Dahl’s Marvellous Children’s Charity, supporting Championing Wellbeing in Policing: A Visit to Harrogate Members of our team visited The Police Treatment Centres in Harrogate to see the incredible work they’re doing to support police officers and their families. From physical rehabilitation to mental health support, we witnessed first-hand the impact of their services—and the value of our ongoing partnership. A Lifesaving Partnership The Fire Fighters Charity Crisis Line Supported by Blue Light Card Foundation Firefighters in the UK regularly face high-stress situations that can take a serious toll on their mental health, Grant funding announcement Grant funding announcement Funded: Woodland Xperiences, South Yorkshire Chaplaincy and Listening, Thames Valley Air Ambulance, SARA, Hampshire and Isle of Wight Air Ambulance, Ickle Pickles charity. Sectors supported: Veterans, Air Your North Blue Light Card Foundation has provided funding for wellbeing toolkit days and residential retreats for the Blue Light community. Veterans in Action Blue Light Card Foundation is supporting a veteran-built Land Rover Defender Campervan project. Saint Catherine’s Hospice Blue Light Card Foundation is funding wellbeing initiatives for staff and volunteers including Qi Gong sessions and wellbeing workshops. OK9 Blue Light Card Foundation has granted funds to provide support dogs for services outside of the police. Mary Stevens Hospice Blue Light Card Foundation is contributing towards a new break room and changing facilities for hospice staff and volunteers. Wonderful Life Academy Blue Light Card Foundation is funding a series of workshops to improve mental health and wellbeing within the Blue Light community. The Frank Bruno Foundation Blue Light Card Foundation is supporting mental health workshops and non-contact boxing sessions for social care staff. The Cart Shed Charity Blue Light Card Foundation is funding The Cart Shed charity’s Days in the Woods initiative to support members of the Blue Light community experiencing mental health challenges.