Blue Light Card Founded in 2008 by former Police Constable CTO Steve Denny and business partner CEO Tom Dalby, Blue Light Card provides those in the NHS, emergency services, social care sector and armed forces with discounts online and in-store. Blue Light Card also works with small and large companies across the UK to get involved in supporting the Blue Light community through offering members discounts through Blue Light Card. The Blue Light Card Foundation receives an annual percentage of Blue Light Card profits. To learn more about Blue Light Card, visit their website: www.bluelightcard.co.uk Motorfinity Motorfinity provides discounts on new vehicles for the UK’s Armed Forces, Armed Forces Veterans, Emergency Services including Police, Fire and Rescue, Ambulance and HM Coastguards, NHS, Prison Services and the Education and Social Care sectors and more. We are happy to announce our first commercial participatorship with Motorfinity. They donate a fixed amount from each car sold. For more information, please visit Motorfinity’s website: www.motorfinity.uk Slater Gordon Lawyers Slater and Gordon is a trusted UK law firm providing expert legal support, with a deep understanding of the unique pressures faced by emergency workers. Their experienced team offers services in personal injury, industrial disease, medical negligence, employment, family law, military law, and more. They act as a support network, helping individuals and their families navigate life’s legal challenges. Blue Light Card Foundation service users receive 10% off fixed fees and hourly rates for Family and Employment services, and 10% off fixed fees for Wills, Trusts, and Probate. Visit here or contact the team on 01518324636 Pukka Pukka is a family-run, Leicestershire-based company, making their well-known and much-loved Pukka Pies. They are committed to supporting their people’s well-being, giving back to the local community, being mindful of sustainability and their environmental impact, and making charitable contributions where possible. Pukka is proud to support Blue Light Card Foundation’s mission. For more information, please visit their website: www.pukkapies.co.uk Interested in supporting the foundation, either through a donation or becoming a corporate partner? Thank you! Please contact fundraising@bluelightcardfoundation.org .