Strategy 2022-27 Future Communities Vision Funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding Campaigning Learning Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Stories Blog News About us Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Stories Home Stories Thomas Cockcroft, 25, is leading change through his organisation, FungALL, to improve his community through mushrooms! A grant from the Funding Futures Programme helped Alaa Alsewid kick-start her idea for a social enterprise that would use lived experience, local knowledge, and cultural understanding to deliver training to communities that need it most. It’s been 15 years since we started funding Young Scot, Scotland’s youth charity. Find out more about our partnership and the latest project we’ve funded. Learning & Impact Report 2022: Depaul UK is creating more prosperous future communities by using funding from our Astra Foundation partnership to help young people at risk of homelessness get back on their feet. Learning & Impact Report 2022: We’re supporting Fal Fishery Co-operative CIC to deliver new ways of protecting native oyster populations as part of our work to build more sustainable future communities. Learning & Impact Report 2022: We’re proud that our #iwill Fund is helping to share power and develop the next generation of activists in line with our youth co-designed Future Communities Vision. Learning & Impact Report 2022: Lonely Not Alone enjoyed another record breaking year in 2022. Read about their inputs, and the incredible legacy they’ll leave for their peers. Learning & Impact Report 2022: Our £47k grant for Boxing Futures is giving young people the chance to get fit and talk about the issues they face, all in line with our plans to build healthier, future communities. Learning & Impact Report 2022: Our flexible funding for the Young Trustees Movement is helping them raise youth influence in civil society so we can build more equitable and inclusive future communities. Learning & Impact Report 2022: Our amazing partner, Refugee Action, is using our unrestricted funding to support asylum seekers like Sami and Mohammad find safer communities. Tackling the root causes of homelessness, one step at a time Young people with additional needs are buzzing with ideas about how they can change public transport for the better in Greater Manchester. We’re proud to have provided £20,000 to Barnardo’s New Horizons peer mentoring project, in Ayrshire, Scotland, which helps young people dealing with bereavement. Funding from our Space to Connect partnership with DCMS helped the Bangladeshi Women’s Association to bring different communities together. We committed our largest single grant to date to help Refugee Action respond to the Afghan refugee crisis and fund longer-term support. Email foundation@coop.co.uk if you have a question or comment for us. Our emails are monitored Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. If you have a media enquiry, please email foundation.media@coop.co.uk . If you have a query about Lonely Not Alone, please email sophie.beresford@coop.co.uk Meet the team Privacy Notice Complaints Policy Accessibility Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Our twitter feed is unavailable right now. Follow us on Twitter