Strategy 2022-27 Future Communities Vision Funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding Campaigning Learning Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Stories Blog News About us Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Learning Home Learning Our learning and measuring impact are underpinned by our co-operative values. How we learn is as important as what we learn. We want to understand where we are making a difference, what works in what context, identify gaps and target our support. We are a reflective funder that believes in continuous improvement as an organisation. We support our grantees in learning and measuring impact for their own benefit, to improve their practice and foster opportunities for peer learning. Our expectations of partners are proportionate and set in the context of transparent, open and trusting relationships. We embed diversity, equity, and inclusion principles in our learning, monitoring and evaluation. We commission diverse teams to measure impact and employ participatory and culturally appropriate methodologies. With our learning, we want to shape and shift grantmakers’ practice in unrestricted funding, participatory grantmaking and funding individuals. Read our blogs and research to find out more how we develop, test and iterate our approaches to giving funds and campaigning. You can also learn in from our 2022-27 theory of change or check out our #FutureCommunities learning podcast . Read more Theory of change Our 2022-27 theory of change sets out the impact we want to achieve over the next five years, and the pathway to change for the individuals and partners we support. Future Communities Vision Almost 100 diverse young people helped to create a vision of future, fair communities for our strategy. Read what they came up with, and how we did it. Research Read what we're learning about the change we want to see in our Future Communities Vision, alongside our archive of research reports into youth loneliness. Email foundation@coop.co.uk if you have a question or comment for us. Our emails are monitored Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. If you have a media enquiry, please email foundation.media@coop.co.uk . If you have a query about Lonely Not Alone, please email sophie.beresford@coop.co.uk Meet the team Privacy Notice Complaints Policy Accessibility Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Our twitter feed is unavailable right now. Follow us on Twitter