Strategy 2022-27 Future Communities Vision Funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding Campaigning Learning Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Stories Blog News About us Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live #iwill Fund Home How we fund #iwill Fund We’re Co-op’s charity and we work closely with communities, we listen and we learn. Our £5m #iwill Fund helped us to listen and learn from young people as they made lives better for themselves, their peers and their community. It was our longest serving funding partnership. Funding partnerships allow us to extend our reach and impact, and learn from other funders too. We awarded grants from this fund from 2017 – 2023 to help young people: Tackle youth loneliness – young people are lonely more than any other age group and they told us that peer support was one of the most effective ways to tackle it . Between 2017 and 2019, we awarded £2m of grants to help 19 partners. Read more in this case study from Mencap . Funding built on our wider support for tackling youth loneliness, including our Lonely Not Alone campaign. Improve skills, spaces and wellbeing – youth social action works best when a young person is tackling issues from their lived experience. Between 2019 and 2022, we awarded £3.3m of grants to support partners that were giving power to young people to improve youth bereavement support, access to community spaces and the transition from primary school to secondary school. This includes £1.2m of follow-on funding for projects in 2022. Our #iwill Fund helped us build communities of the future imagined by young people through youth activism and shared power. The #iwill Fund was made possible thanks to £66 million joint investment from The National Lottery Community Fund and the Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) to support young people to access high quality social action opportunities. The Co-op Foundation acted as a match funder and awarded grants on behalf of the #iwill Fund. The #iwill Fund supports the aims of the #iwill movement – to make involvement in social action a part of life for young people. Downloads Co-op Foundation Power of Youth Charter PDF/272KB Co-op Power of Youth Charter PDF/308KB Co-op Foundation #iwill Year 1 summary report PDF/331KB Co-op Foundation #iwill mid-year summary PDF/1,013KB keep reading Where there’s #iwill there’s a way Our #iwill Fund partnership with The National Lottery Community Fund and the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) is our oldest such collaboration. We’re proud to have supported partners to engage young people in high quality social action since mid-2018. As we mark #iwill Week 2021 – and as we launch our #iwill Fund interim learning report – we look back on this partnership and review what we’ve achieved and learned, particularly in the past year. Developing the leaders of tomorrow Our funding for Oxfordshire Youth is helping to develop leaders and boost mental wellbeing by encouraging young people to support others as they move up to secondary school. Helping young people navigate their world Young people with additional needs are buzzing with ideas about how they can change public transport for the better in Greater Manchester. Email foundation@coop.co.uk if you have a question or comment for us. Our emails are monitored Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. If you have a media enquiry, please email foundation.media@coop.co.uk . If you have a query about Lonely Not Alone, please email sophie.beresford@coop.co.uk Meet the team Privacy Notice Complaints Policy Accessibility Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Our twitter feed is unavailable right now. Follow us on Twitter