Strategy 2022-27 Future Communities Vision Funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding Campaigning Learning Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Stories Blog News About us Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Young Gamechangers Fund Steering Group Home About us Young Gamechangers Fund steering group The Young Gamechangers Fund is a brand new way of funding, with young people in mind. This is why we’re placing young people at the heart of decision-making, as the next generation of leaders and pioneers. Our Young Gamechangers Fund Steering Group has helped develop every aspect of the Young Gamechangers Fund. Find out more about them below. Our Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Adrián Courcelles Baena, he/him I am passionate about free, inclusive, and equal health care, education, and opportunities for all. Aged 20. I am passionate about free, inclusive, and equal health care, education, and opportunities for all. Aged 20. Dev Sharma, he/him 18-year-old award-winning social campaigner and youth MP. 18-year-old award-winning social campaigner and youth MP. Emily McChrystal, she/they I am really passionate about the inclusive practice and ensuring marginalised people are at the forefront of shaping a radically kind society! Aged 23. I am really passionate about the inclusive practice and ensuring marginalised people are at the forefront of shaping a radically kind society! Aged 23. Emma Bromley, she/her I’m passionate about getting people to connect with nature and creating spaces for nature in urban areas! Aged 25. I’m passionate about getting people to connect with nature and creating spaces for nature in urban areas! Aged 25. Isaac Toman, he/they I am passionate about making a difference to care experienced young people. Aged 21. I am passionate about making a difference to care experienced young people. Aged 21. Joba Chowdhury, she/her Love talking about myself and my passion for change-making in the youth sector. Aged 20. Love talking about myself and my passion for change-making in the youth sector. Aged 20. Lavanya Manobharath, she/her I am passionate about all things education and increasing access to quality education! Aged 21 I am passionate about all things education and increasing access to quality education! Aged 21 Mariama Adan, she/her A Bristolian eager about social change and studying at Cardiff University! Aged 20. A Bristolian eager about social change and studying at Cardiff University! Aged 20. Megan Whiteside, she/her I am a huge lover of social action and changing things for the better! Aged 22. I am a huge lover of social action and changing things for the better! Aged 22. Mya Badhan, she/her I’m really passionate about implementing proactive social justice and challenging institutionalised hierarchies. Aged 22. I’m really passionate about implementing proactive social justice and challenging institutionalised hierarchies. Aged 22. Vanessa Castro, she/they I am a proud Latinx south Londoner – currently lead community organiser and alumni of the Advocacy Academy a youth organising movement based in Brixton. Aged 25. I am a proud Latinx south Londoner – currently lead community organiser and alumni of the Advocacy Academy a youth organising movement based in Brixton. Aged 25. Victor Agbontean, he/him My name is Victor, and I live in Birmingham. I have a strong commitment to social action and a desire to represent and advocate for minorities and young people in our country. Aged 18. My name is Victor, and I live in Birmingham. I have a strong commitment to social action and a desire to represent and advocate for minorities and young people in our country. Aged 18. Keep reading Building communities of the future together We’re the Co-op's charity and we’re co-operating for a fairer world. We believe co-operation is at the heart of strong communities and this makes us a different kind of funder. Future Communities Vision We co-operated with almost 100 young people from across the UK to develop our Future Communities Vision. ‘We’re building a movement of young trustees’ Learning & Impact Report 2022: Our flexible funding for the Young Trustees Movement is helping them raise youth influence in civil society so we can build more equitable and inclusive future communities. Email foundation@coop.co.uk if you have a question or comment for us. Our emails are monitored Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. If you have a media enquiry, please email foundation.media@coop.co.uk . If you have a query about Lonely Not Alone, please email sophie.beresford@coop.co.uk Meet the team Privacy Notice Complaints Policy Accessibility Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Our twitter feed is unavailable right now. Follow us on Twitter