Strategy 2022-27 Future Communities Vision Funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding Campaigning Learning Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Stories Blog News About us Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live About us Home About us Our purpose, vision and mission Our overall purpose is: Co-operating for a fairer world Our vision is of: Future communities that are fair and built on co-operative values Our mission is: To co-operate with and fund others to help build these communities in the UK V isit our Charity Commission page to read our most recent annual reports and accounts, and find out who we fund on 360Giving . You can find our most recent annual reports and accounts here . Let’s build communities of the future together We’re the Co-op’s charity and we’re co-operating for a fairer world. We believe co-operation is at the heart of strong communities and this makes us a different kind of funder. We work closely with communities, we listen and we learn. We unlock communities’ power by focusing on those who have most at stake. That’s why we asked young people to shape our vision for fairer, more co-operative communities. They’re the next generation of leaders and pioneers. We make it easy for organisations and individuals to access our funds, work with us and campaign alongside us. We’re always ready to share what we’ve learned and we’re proud to be part of the Co‑op. Co-operate with us, and let’s build communities of the future together. Learn more about us and how we work Our strategy Our Impact Our team Email foundation@coop.co.uk if you have a question or comment for us. Our emails are monitored Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. If you have a media enquiry, please email foundation.media@coop.co.uk . If you have a query about Lonely Not Alone, please email sophie.beresford@coop.co.uk Meet the team Privacy Notice Complaints Policy Accessibility Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Our twitter feed is unavailable right now. Follow us on Twitter