Strategy 2022-27 Future Communities Vision Funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding Campaigning Learning Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Stories Blog News About us Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Future Communities Fund Home How we fund Future Communities Fund Our Future Communities Fund is the first strategic fund launched under our ‘Building communities of the future together’ strategy. We’re pioneering a distinctly co-operative way of funding, and that’s why this fund is: Participatory – grant-giving will be led by our Future Communities Collective . This is a group of diverse young people who advise on our funding and strategy. Unrestricted – we’re funding organisations, not projects. Long-term – we’re providing funding for up to five years. Trusting – we’ll work with our partners to understand how our funding can increase their impact. Accessible – we introduced a two-stage application process for this fund and pledged to be honest and open with applicants as we trial new ways of working. This aligns to our IVAR commitments. Supportive – we’re here to help community groups to be the best they can be in whatever way we can. That’s why we’re funding them flexibly and amplifying the amazing work that they do. Facilitating co-operating – we’ll help to facilitate connections between groups so our partners can achieve more, learn together and co-operate for a fairer world. Our Future Communities Fund was first launched in November 2022. It brought together two strategic priorities from our youth-designed Future Communities Vision – ‘youth activism and shared power’ and ‘diversity, equity and inclusion’. Our working definition of ‘diverse’ is people who have experience of being marginalised in society due to their race, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability, socioeconomic status or any other attribute that impacts their inclusion. Read more about our partners from round one of funding . The second round of our Future Communities Fund will support organisations that are helping young people with experience of the youth justice system to re-engage with their communities. Applications for this fund are now closed. Sign up to our blog to hear first about updates from the Future Communities Fund, including future rounds of grant-giving. If you’re a funder interested in learning about co-operative grantmaking, please contact Louise , our Head of Funding & Partnerships. keep reading Building communities of the future together We’re the Co-op's charity and we’re co-operating for a fairer world. We believe co-operation is at the heart of strong communities and this makes us a different kind of funder. Future Communities Vision We co-operated with almost 100 young people from across the UK to develop our Future Communities Vision. How we fund We provide flexible and unrestricted funding to people working to build the fairer, more co-operative communities of the future imagined by young people. Email foundation@coop.co.uk if you have a question or comment for us. Our emails are monitored Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. If you have a media enquiry, please email foundation.media@coop.co.uk . If you have a query about Lonely Not Alone, please email sophie.beresford@coop.co.uk Meet the team Privacy Notice Complaints Policy Accessibility Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Our twitter feed is unavailable right now. Follow us on Twitter