Strategy 2022-27 Future Communities Vision Funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding Campaigning Learning Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Stories Blog News About us Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Blog Home Blog Our Head of Learning & Impact explores how unrestricted funding can have a transformational impact on youth organisations and the young people they serve. We want to build communities where everyone feels safe and where children who come into contact with the youth justice system are supported onto the right path. That’s why we’re campaigning to end the unnecessary imprisonment and remand of children. Our CEO, Nick Crofts, reflects on how we supported our funded partners to co-operate for fairer communities in 2024. Yas, one of our Future Communities Collective, shares with us why she thinks it’s important for young people to get involved in grant funding. The second round of our Future Communities Fund focuses on helping those who have been through the justice system to re-engage with their communities. Find out more, including whether your organisation is eligible to apply. The second round of our Future Communities Fund opens on 15 May. Find out more about the fund via our webinar on 8 May. Our latest cohort of gamechangers are transforming their local communities with help from the £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund from Co-op, the Co-op Foundation and the #iwill Fund. Read more about why Neylia, a member of our Future Communities Collective, thinks youth leadership is integral to making the best decisions for the future Find out more about Suranne, Keshon and Finlay’s experience of being a part of our Future Communities Collective. Our Chair, Jamie, looks back on their time at the Foundation. We’re both excited and proud to be Co-op Live’s Official Charity Partner. Through an annual £1m donation to us at the Foundation, gigs at Co-op Live really will give back! We’re sharing everything young people told us during our first hackathon event about how to meaningfully involve them in our work . See what we learned with the Blagrave Trust about empowering young climate changemakers. Actions, not words – how we’re progressing with supporting our funded partners deal with the aftermath of last month’s far right riots. Two of the young people who helped design and facilitate our first hackathon event, Michael and Helen, share tips on how to successfully host youth-led events Email foundation@coop.co.uk if you have a question or comment for us. Our emails are monitored Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. If you have a media enquiry, please email foundation.media@coop.co.uk . If you have a query about Lonely Not Alone, please email sophie.beresford@coop.co.uk Meet the team Privacy Notice Complaints Policy Accessibility Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Our twitter feed is unavailable right now. Follow us on Twitter