Strategy 2022-27 Future Communities Vision Funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding Campaigning Learning Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Stories Blog News About us Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Carbon Innovation Fund Home How we fund Carbon Innovation Fund We’re working with the Co-op to tackle greenhouse gas emissions through our £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund (CIF). Our funding is split into three rounds: £1.4m of grants delivered in June 2022 to help 15 partners tackle carbon emissions in food and farming. Read more about the partners we’ve funded around the globe. Over £1m of grants delivered in the second round of funding in July 2023, to help seven UK-based partners reduce reliance on soy-based animal or fish feed and/or synthetic fertilisers. Find out more about round two partners here . Round three of the Carbon Innovation Fund awarded £1m to initiatives which work to protect peatlands. Read more about our round three partners . CIF is funded through Co-op donations from the sale of compostable carrier bags in the UK, as well as our own funds. Working with partners and other funders is just one way that our funding has more impact, and more reach. Grants are helping us create more sustainable communities imagined by young people for our ‘Building communities of the future together’ strategy. We’re also working with learning partners to understand the impact of our work to date. Subscribe to our blog for updates from our CIF partners or email Aruna , our Funding & Partnerships Manager, for more information on how we work with match funders. Keep reading Introducing partners from our £3m Carbon Innovation Fund Our new £1.3m investment is helping to reduce carbon emissions all the way from Shropshire to the Galapagos Islands Supporting Fal Fishery to create more sustainable communities Learning & Impact Report 2022: We’re supporting Fal Fishery Co-operative CIC to deliver new ways of protecting native oyster populations as part of our work to build more sustainable future communities. We’ve signed the Funder Commitment on Climate Change We’re taking responsibility to be a more climate-focussed funder by signing the Association of Charitable Foundation's Funder Commitment on Climate Change. Email foundation@coop.co.uk if you have a question or comment for us. Our emails are monitored Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. If you have a media enquiry, please email foundation.media@coop.co.uk . If you have a query about Lonely Not Alone, please email sophie.beresford@coop.co.uk Meet the team Privacy Notice Complaints Policy Accessibility Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Our twitter feed is unavailable right now. Follow us on Twitter