Strategy 2022-27 Future Communities Vision Funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding Campaigning Learning Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Stories Blog News About us Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live News Home News Media enquiries Journalists with media enquiries should email foundation.media@coop.co.uk . This mailbox is monitored Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. We can also support funded partners needing comms support at the same address. We’re looking for a researcher with expertise in the areas of alternatives to soy-containing feed and synthetic fertilisers and scaling up farming innovation. A statement of solidarity in response to the far-right riots. Announcing partners from round three of our Carbon Innovation Fund – our £3.5m partnership with Co-op Our Young Gamechangers Fund partnership with Co-op and the #iwill Fund is now open for applications. We’re celebrating the first seats installed at Co-op Live by awarding a pair of tickets to a young person driving social change. Young people have shared their feelings on the journey to Net Zero in new research from the Co-op and Co-op Foundation We are inviting research agencies and consultants to tender for a £10k contract that will help us decide on the grant-giving focus for round two of our Future Communities Fund. We are inviting evaluators, consultants and academics to tender for a new £150k learning contract as part of round one of our £1.5m Future Communities Fund (FCF). Co-op and Co-op Foundation to fund organisations trialling human urine and seaweed to reduce soy-containing animal feed and synthetic fertilisers in farming Young people decided on funding from the Foundation’s first ever Future Communities Fund Co-op Foundation chair, Jamie Ward-Smith, and fellow trustee, George Imafidon, have received MBEs in the King’s first Official Birthday Honours List. Co-op’s charity awarded £3.4m in grants to organisations across the UK and globally in 2022 to help build fairer, more co-operative communities. We’ve welcomed new Co-op colleagues and Council Members to our board of trustees as we begin work to deliver our new five-year strategy, Building communities of the future together. We’re inviting researchers to tender for a study into just transition and young people. Round two of our £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund (CIF) partnership with Co-op opens for applications today, Wednesday 1 February. Email foundation@coop.co.uk if you have a question or comment for us. Our emails are monitored Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. If you have a media enquiry, please email foundation.media@coop.co.uk . If you have a query about Lonely Not Alone, please email sophie.beresford@coop.co.uk Meet the team Privacy Notice Complaints Policy Accessibility Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Our twitter feed is unavailable right now. Follow us on Twitter