Strategy 2022-27 Future Communities Vision Funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding Campaigning Learning Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Stories Blog News About us Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Systemic Change Funding Home How we fund Systemic Change funding We’re co-operating with other organisations to make real change in the charity sector. Our Systemic Change funding is supporting organisations which are strengthening civil society. Our partners are delivering on creating a fairer civil society and are strengthening the sector, in line with our commitment to diverse, equitable and inclusive communities. They’re building communities of the future together . Sign up to our blog for regular updates on what our partners are doing. keep reading Open and trusting grant making We've joined a community of flexible funders committed to open and trusting grant making, coordinated by the Institute for Voluntary Action Research (IVAR). ‘We’re building a movement of young trustees’ Learning & Impact Report 2022: Our flexible funding for the Young Trustees Movement is helping them raise youth influence in civil society so we can build more equitable and inclusive future communities. Building impact through long-term support We awarded long-term funding to the Young Trustees Movement and Getting on Board in 2021 to help them tackle inequality in charity leadership. Email foundation@coop.co.uk if you have a question or comment for us. Our emails are monitored Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. If you have a media enquiry, please email foundation.media@coop.co.uk . If you have a query about Lonely Not Alone, please email sophie.beresford@coop.co.uk Meet the team Privacy Notice Complaints Policy Accessibility Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Our twitter feed is unavailable right now. Follow us on Twitter