Strategy 2022-27 Future Communities Vision Funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding Campaigning Learning Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Stories Blog News About us Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Donate Home About us Donate We’re Co-op’s charity and we’re ‘Co-operating for a fairer world’. In 2022, donations helped us award £3.4m in grants all over the UK, and globally. Funding supported young people like Josephine and Thomas. They’ve been working to improve their wellbeing and give back to their community through our funded partner, Boxing Futures . Thomas says: “[Boxing Futures] helps me through improving my confidence because I’m exercising as well as talking about things that matter. ” Josephine adds: “My mental health is getting better. It’s broadened my horizons and made me look at things differently. If Boxing Futures wasn’t here, I don’t really know what I would do.” Help us support even more young people and partners It’s easy to donate today. Simply make a pledge on our JustGiving page or give your Co-op Member Reward online or in app. You can download or access these apps using the buttons below. Let’s build communities of the future together. How we use your donation Your donation will help us deliver on our ‘Building communities of the future together strategy ‘. This strategy is informed by young people who told us to build future communities that are: Safe Prosperous and with access to opportunity Equitable, inclusive and diverse Healthy Sustainable Prioritise youth activism, transparent governance and shared power. Your support will help us bring this vision to life. Want to know more? Please visit the Charity Commission to read our most recent annual reports and accounts. Donate your Co-op Member Reward Sign in to your Co-op account to donate, or find us on the Co-op App. JustGiving Help us by setting up a one-off or regular donation. Email us at Foundation@coop.co.uk if you're organising your own fundraising event. Textile banks Raise funds by donating unwanted clothes and shoes to official textile banks at your local Co-op store. Email foundation@coop.co.uk if you have a question or comment for us. Our emails are monitored Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. If you have a media enquiry, please email foundation.media@coop.co.uk . If you have a query about Lonely Not Alone, please email sophie.beresford@coop.co.uk Meet the team Privacy Notice Complaints Policy Accessibility Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Our twitter feed is unavailable right now. Follow us on Twitter