Strategy 2022-27 Future Communities Vision Funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund £1.75m Future Communities Fund £3.5m Carbon Innovation Fund £5m #iwill Fund Systemic Change funding Campaigning Learning Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Theory of change Research Evaluation Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Standard Stories Blog News About us Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Future Communities Collective Young Gamechangers Fund steering group Co-op Live Young Gamechangers Fund Home How we fund £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund The Co-op Foundation, in partnership with Co-op and the #iwill Fund, are tackling this through the £4.5m Young Gamechangers Fund. We are searching for young activists, campaigners, disrupters, co-operators, and social entrepreneurs to lead youth-led social action across the UK, with two types of funding available: Funding for individuals Funding for groups or organisations with an annual income of less than £100,000 We will prioritise support for young activists who are committed to creating communities that are prosperous, safe, diverse, equitable and inclusive, healthy, and sustainable. In particular we wanted to support groups and communities that prioritise youth activism and shared power. Find out more about our round one partners. Find out more about our round two partners. The Young Gamechangers Fund is delivered by the Global Fund for Children and Restless Development , alongside the Co-op Foundation. In addition to funding, successful applicants will also get access to peer support networks, training and mentoring to help their vision come to life – putting young people at the heart of change. Young people have built this Fund from the ground up, co-designing branding and developing every aspect of the fund from the application process through to grant decisions. Find out more about our youth steering group. The opportunities are endless, so let’s do things differently. Let’s build communities of the future together. Contact our delivery partner Global Fund for Children if you need more information. Co-op Live, the UK’s largest indoor arena, supports the Young Gamechangers Fund through an annual donation of at least £1m to the Co-op Foundation from 2024. Sign up to our blog for regular updates on our work with our partners. Delivered by keep reading ‘We’re building a movement of young trustees’ Learning & Impact Report 2022: Our flexible funding for the Young Trustees Movement is helping them raise youth influence in civil society so we can build more equitable and inclusive future communities. #iwill Fund Our £5m #iwill fund gave power to young people to support their peers and community Future Communities Fund We're helping organisations develop diverse young leaders through our £1.5m Future Communities Fund Email foundation@coop.co.uk if you have a question or comment for us. Our emails are monitored Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm. If you have a media enquiry, please email foundation.media@coop.co.uk . If you have a query about Lonely Not Alone, please email sophie.beresford@coop.co.uk Meet the team Privacy Notice Complaints Policy Accessibility Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Our twitter feed is unavailable right now. Follow us on Twitter