Our Work The ALBORADA Trust’s work is defined by its commitment to supporting UK-registered charities that make a positive difference around the world. We award grants to support and promote excellence in diverse sectors. Our Sectors The ALBORADA Trust supports a broad range of charities, providing grants to those that demonstrate a solid track record, sound governance, performance metrics, and high-impact results. Our aim is to work with amazing charities and inspirational people to act as a catalyst, whether it be a multi-year medical research project or a small community project. Each sector and project represents a unique opportunity to effect change. ​ The ALBORADA Trust supports project specific activities. These grants are for a specific project or area of work, which has a defined scope of work, timescale, aims and objectives. It is very rare for the ALBORADA Trust to support unrestricted work, operating/core costs or capital projects. Further, The ALBORADA Trust does not fund the salaries of specific posts e.g. Operations Manager etc. This is for the simple reasons that, if we are not able to renew our support, we don't want to put a member of your staff at risk. 01 Medical Research Aims of Funding UK Registered charities that fund all stages of research - from basic science projects to clinical trials - in all areas of health and disease throughout the UK. 02 Higher Education Aims of Funding UK Registered charities funding any type of education in post-secondary institutions for the benefit of the institutions, students (under graduates or post graduate PhD), or professors. 03 Veterinary Research Aims of Funding UK Registered charities focused on studies on prevention, control, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and on the basic biology and welfare of equids and primarily, although not exclusively, thoroughbreds. 04 International Aid Aims of Funding UK Registered charities providing foreign aid, via the international transfer of capital, goods, or services for the benefit of the recipient country or its population. In the form of international development or emergency humanitarian aid. 07 Community Causes Aims of Funding UK Registered charities typically focus on supporting East Anglia, primarily by facilitating and pooling donations used to address community needs and support local groups. 05 Equine Aims of Funding UK Registered charities supporting thoroughbred and equine welfare, racing and stud staff, and projects in the racing centres. 08 Wildlife Conservation Aims of Funding UK Registered Charities dedicated to the preservation of endangered species, wildlife conservation and fighting wildlife crime. 06 Healthcare Aims of Funding UK Registered charities dedicated to the improvement of health and wellness via the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, amelioration or cure of disease, illness, injury, and other physical and mental impairments in people. Médecins Sans Frontières