Get involved Do you have big or small ideas about what could make a difference? We want you to share your experiences, views and ideas with us at Barnwood Trust. Be a part of the conversation Barnwood Trust is guided by Barnwood Circle members’ involvement in our work: Listening to what is important to you in your life and what changes you want to see in Gloucestershire. Asking you about topics to understand more before we take action or try to influence in the county. Inviting you to be an Expert by Experience on a project team with employees of Barnwood Trust. Join a Barnwood Circle Meetup There are meet ups in different areas of Gloucestershire for people to share ideas about what matters locally and across the County for disabled people and people with mental health challenges. Meetups are also a way for Barnwood Circle members to connect and for new people to find out about Barnwood Circle membership. Get in touch to find out about Meetups happening near you this Spring, Summer or Autumn. Take part in Barnwood research We have a research programme at Barnwood Trust that is focused on disability and mental health. Our research helps us, and others, to drive systemic and societal change, through campaigning and policy work. Check here for new opportunities to take part in research or get in touch to find out more. Sign up for a workshop We offer a range of public workshops. Some are aimed at organisations and groups to help make Gloucestershire more inclusive and accessible. Workshops are facilitated by a range of Barnwood Trust staff and external partners and cater for a wide range of learning styles. Barnwood Circle members can access workshops for free. See the latest workshops on offer here Your feedback is welcome If we can do better at Barnwood Trust, we want to know about it. What is working well? What could we do better? Tell us your suggestions about how we can improve by getting in touch with us at Barnwood Trust. Freephone 0800 4220404 WhatsApp 07519 325601 Email talktous@barnwoodtrust.org Visit our News section to stay up-to-date on what is happening and don’t forget to follow us on Facebook , Twitter & Instagram to keep in touch. Best wishes The Barnwood Trust team Related Content We are celebrating a new look and a new website with a September tour of Gloucestershire!