Accessibility Our aim is that the content of this website is accessible for everyone. We have put effort into enhancing the website’s user-friendliness and accessibility in line with our vision and values. We also share the mission of Recite Me that everyone should be able to experience and engage with digital content, equally. We are aware that not all of the content is as accessible as we would like. We will continue to make improvements to the accessibility of this website and services. How we support accessibility This website takes the following measures to ensure accessibility: Accessibility is part of our mission statement. Accessibility is included in our internal policies. Accessibility is a key part of our procurement practices. Conformance status The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) define requirements for designers and developers to improve accessibility for disabled people. It defines 3 levels of conformance: Level A, Level AA, and Level AAA. Barnwood Trust is committed to making its website accessible to all visitors, in line with regional regulations and we aim for conformance with the WCAG 2.1 (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1) at level AA. Website Redesign in 2025/26 In line with our commitment to accessibility, we will be undertaking a comprehensive website redesign during 2025/26. This redesign will be co-designed with Experts by Lived Experience (EbLEs) with the aim of creating a website that is intuitive, user-friendly, and accessible to all. We will also be seeking professional web development expertise to support this process. Our goal is to ensure that the redesigned website meets the international WCAG 2.2 AA accessibility standards, providing a seamless browsing experience for everyone, including users who rely on assistive technologies. Third-party content We may make use of third-party resources that embed content on our website. Wherever possible we will ensure these are conformant. Technical specifications Accessibility of this website relies on the following technologies to work with the particular combination of web browsers and any assistive technologies or plugins installed on your computer: HTML CSS JavaScript These technologies are needed for us to be able to conform with the accessibility guidelines used. What we’re doing to improve accessibility Our accessibility journey is continuing. We regularly review our website and its content to identify and fix known issues. We can do this by running a check of our website with the Recite Me Accessibility Checker . Telling us about accessibility problems with this website We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of our website. If you encounter content that you cannot access, then please contact us on the details below and we will provide you with an accessible alternative. Jess Waterman, Head of Engagement on jess.waterman@barnwoodtrust.org or 01242 539935. Any feedback we receive we aim to get back to you within 1 week (if a response is requested). If you are not happy with how we have responded to the issue you have raised with us about the accessibility of our website, then please contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS). The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for ensuring websites meet accessibility standards. This statement was written in April 2024 and updated in November 2024. We will review and update it at least once a year. To download this statement as a PDF please click here.