Grants for individuals Important Notice Our Individual Grants Team works with Citizen’s Advice North & West Gloucestershire to help disabled people and people with mental health conditions across Gloucestershire access the support and advice they need. This includes directing people to individual funding. Due to high demand, Citizen’s Advice North & West Gloucestershire are unable to accept new individual funding requests between Monday 01 September – Friday 10 October 2025. They will be back and ready to help again on Monday 13 October 2025. Thank you for your patience and understanding. As part of our purpose to act as an agent of social change, Barnwood Trust’s ‘Grants for Individuals’ programme will continue to: Focus on increasing enjoyment and enrichment opportunities for disabled people and people with mental health conditions. Support disabled people and people with mental health conditions with essential household items. We have partnered up with a network of organisations across Gloucestershire – who consist of local charities, voluntary organisations and housing associations. These Community Partners provide ongoing support, advice and guidance for disabled people and people with mental health conditions who have indicated a need for support. Our Community Partners can apply for funding on behalf of eligible individuals from their existing client base, if they’ve established Barnwood Trust is the most suitable option for them based on their needs and circumstances. Our Community Partners are not expected to ‘market’ our individual funding, and Barnwood Trust will not signpost an individual directly to our Community Partner organisations for the sole purpose of applying for funding. If you’re in need of support and would like help being introduced to one of our Community Partners, please call Citizen’s Advice North & West Gloucestershire on 0808 189 6280 – their lines are open between 10am to 4pm Mondays-Thursdays, and between 10am to 1pm on Fridays. Alternatively, you can email Citizen’s Advice using barnwood@gloscab.org.uk. If you require any additional support, here are a range of links which may be of some help: The Turn2Us Grant Search can help you to find funds based on your circumstances or experience. StepChange can give free debt advice and help with budgeting. The Lightning Application Portal is a secure online portal which allows you to find and apply for support from multiple providers, quickly and easily. You can also visit Barnwood Trust – Other Support Available for more details of other support options available. If you have any questions about our individual funding, please see our ‘frequently asked questions’ for more information.