Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Crime, justice and the law Legal processes, courts and the police Most viewed Send money to someone in prison Visit someone in prison Report an untaxed vehicle Topics Your rights and legal support Includes legal aid, consumer advice, discrimination, work and residential property disputes Your rights and legal support Includes legal aid, consumer advice, discrimination, work and residential property disputes Courts, tribunals and appeals Includes going to court, paying fines, appealing a sentence, jury service and tribunals Courts, tribunals and appeals Includes going to court, paying fines, appealing a sentence, jury service and tribunals Reporting crimes Includes antisocial behaviour, abuse, benefit fraud and terrorism Reporting crimes Includes antisocial behaviour, abuse, benefit fraud and terrorism Compensation and victim support Includes criminal injuries compensation and other victim support Compensation and victim support Includes criminal injuries compensation and other victim support Penalties, sentences and police Includes being charged with a crime, cautions, community sentences and police powers Penalties, sentences and police Includes being charged with a crime, cautions, community sentences and police powers Prisons and probation Sentencing, probation and support for families of prisoners Prisons and probation Sentencing, probation and support for families of prisoners Young people and the law Includes legal rights, youth offending teams and crime prevention Young people and the law Includes legal rights, youth offending teams and crime prevention Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab ) .