Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Money and tax Includes debt and Self Assessment Most viewed HMRC online services: sign in or set up an account Personal tax account: sign in or set up Estimate your Income Tax for the current year Topics Capital Gains Tax Tax when you sell property, shares, personal possessions and business assets Capital Gains Tax Tax when you sell property, shares, personal possessions and business assets Court claims, debt and bankruptcy Includes recovering debts, registering for bankruptcy and as a creditor Court claims, debt and bankruptcy Includes recovering debts, registering for bankruptcy and as a creditor Dealing with HMRC Reporting changes, agents, appeals, checks, complaints and help with tax Dealing with HMRC Reporting changes, agents, appeals, checks, complaints and help with tax Income Tax Includes rates and allowances, tax codes and refunds Income Tax Includes rates and allowances, tax codes and refunds Inheritance Tax Includes valuing an estate, trusts and taxes Inheritance Tax Includes valuing an estate, trusts and taxes National Insurance Voluntary contributions and credits, numbers, rates and classes National Insurance Voluntary contributions and credits, numbers, rates and classes Self Assessment Includes filing, deadlines, pay and tax records Self Assessment Includes filing, deadlines, pay and tax records VAT Includes online returns, rates, charging and record keeping VAT Includes online returns, rates, charging and record keeping Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab ) .