In everything we do, we recognise our role as an organisation in addressing the causes and impacts of climate change. In 2021, we committed to ensuring our investment portfolio will be net zero by 2040 at the latest. Learn more about our approach to reaching net zero and our progress so far. We are also a signatory to the Funder Commitment on Climate Change . This means that we will report annually on our progress against the six goals listed below. Read our 2024 update on progress . We commit to: We will make opportunities for our trustees, staff and stakeholders to learn more about the key causes and solutions of climate change. We will commit resources to accelerate work that addresses the causes and impacts of climate change. (If our governing document or other factors make it difficult to directly fund such work, we will find other ways to contribute, or consider how such barriers might be overcome). Within all our existing programmes, priorities and processes, we will seek opportunities to contribute to a fair and lasting transition to a post carbon society, and to support adaptation to climate change impacts. We will recognise climate change as a high-level risk to our investments, and therefore to our mission. We will proactively address the risks and opportunities of a transition to a post carbon economy in our investment strategy and its implementation, recognising that our decisions can contribute to this transition being achieved. We will take ambitious action to minimise the carbon footprint of our own operations. We will report annually on our progress against the five goals listed above. We will continue to develop our practice, to learn from others, and to share our learning. Learn more Funder Commitment on Climate Change: 2024 Read our 2024 update on our work towards the six goals of the Funder Commitment on Climate Change. Read more Funder Commitment on Climate Change: 2024 Read our 2024 update on our work towards the six goals of the Funder Commitment on Climate Change. Funder Commitment on Climate Change 2023 update Read our 2023 update on our work towards the six goals of the Funder Commitment on Climate Change. Read more Funder Commitment on Climate Change 2023 update Read our 2023 update on our work towards the six goals of the Funder Commitment on Climate Change. Funder Commitment on Climate Change: 2022 update Read our 2022 update on our work towards the six goals of the Funder Commitment on Climate Change. Read more Funder Commitment on Climate Change: 2022 update Read our 2022 update on our work towards the six goals of the Funder Commitment on Climate Change. Our commitment and strategy to be net zero We have made a commitment that our investment portfolio will be net zero in terms of carbon emissions by 2040 at the latest. Read more Our commitment and strategy to be net zero We have made a commitment that our investment portfolio will be net zero in terms of carbon emissions by 2040 at the latest. Funder Commitment on Climate Change: 2021 update Read our 2021 update on our work towards the six goals of the Funder Commitment on Climate Change. Read more Funder Commitment on Climate Change: 2021 update Read our 2021 update on our work towards the six goals of the Funder Commitment on Climate Change. You might be interested in 09 October 2025 Business action on nature in the UK and guide to nature finance We're pleased to share a new report by Will McDonald for Esmée Fairbairn Foundation, which explores how business in the UK is taking action on nature and the drivers behind it. You can also find a practical guide to the different types of nature finance and watch our webinar where we explore the findings. Read more Business action on nature in the UK and guide to nature finance We're pleased to share a new report by Will McDonald for Esmée Fairbairn Foundation, which explores how business in the UK is taking action on nature and the drivers behind it. You can also find a practical guide to the different types of nature finance and watch our webinar where we explore the findings. 30 September 2025 Seascapes: Restoring the UK marine environment, Webinar on 20 October We’re excited to share a new report by Pelagos Consulting on how to scale and sustain marine recovery across the UK. Morven Robertson, Esmée’s Funding Manager, reflects on what this means for our future approach. We’ll also be hosting a webinar to discuss the findings and next steps. Read more Seascapes: Restoring the UK marine environment, Webinar on 20 October We’re excited to share a new report by Pelagos Consulting on how to scale and sustain marine recovery across the UK. Morven Robertson, Esmée’s Funding Manager, reflects on what this means for our future approach. We’ll also be hosting a webinar to discuss the findings and next steps. 25 July 2025 Freshwater: Mid-strategy review We’re pleased to share a new report exploring changes since our strategy launched, progress made, challenges faced, and recommendations for Esmée and other funders. Simon Wightman, our Funding Manager Lead for Our Natural World, reflects on the findings, what’s next, and the potential impact of the Independent Water Commission’s Final Report. Read more Freshwater: Mid-strategy review We’re pleased to share a new report exploring changes since our strategy launched, progress made, challenges faced, and recommendations for Esmée and other funders. Simon Wightman, our Funding Manager Lead for Our Natural World, reflects on the findings, what’s next, and the potential impact of the Independent Water Commission’s Final Report. 07 July 2025 Invitation to Tender: Impact Investment deep dive on social and affordable housing in the UK We're looking for a provider to develop a practical resource for impact investors, assessing the investment opportunity both through funds and direct investments, which align with the theme of social and affordable housing in the UK. Read more Invitation to Tender: Impact Investment deep dive on social and affordable housing in the UK We're looking for a provider to develop a practical resource for impact investors, assessing the investment opportunity both through funds and direct investments, which align with the theme of social and affordable housing in the UK.