Sea Ranger Service We make unrestricted, core, project, and delegated grants for charitable work in the UK. On this page, you'll find more about our approach to funding, and what to expect from us as a funder. Open and trusting grant-making We are part of a community of funders and charities committed to open and trusting grant-making , a campaign coordinated by the Institute for Voluntary Action (IVAR) . Our approach to funding Around two thirds of our active grants are for core costs, or are unrestricted. Most of our grants are for three years to five years. We use all our tools, including Funding Plus , communications , and convening and connecting , to enable the work we fund to have a greater impact. We are keen to connect the organisations we support – you can investigate our data in our portfolio . Our approach to learning is based on setting mutually agreed outcomes for the work we fund. We expect these outcomes to change over time. We encourage organisations to tell us when things are not going well, and to change and adapt their work over the course of our grant. We will only ask for information we need and use, and commit to sharing what we learn. We have a mostly London-based funding team of 17 managing an active portfolio of 700 grants. As an organisation, we developed a series of values that act as a guide for staff and Trustees about how we work at Esmée. You can learn more about how we work as part of our commitments to open and trusting grant-making . 2024 Grants in Numbers See our overview of grant funding broken down by aim and priority, type of support, and amount awarded. £45.1m Total value in main grants Total value in main grants 241 Number of main grants awarded: the majority of these were for 3 to 5 years Number of main grants awarded: the majority of these were for 3 to 5 years 66% Percentage of main grants for unrestricted or core costs Percentage of main grants for unrestricted or core costs 39% Percentage of main grants awarded to organisations new to Esmée Percentage of main grants awarded to organisations new to Esmée What to expect from Esmée Grant reporting Reporting to Esmée should be easy for you and valuable for both of us. We will only ask for information we need and use. Read more Grant reporting Reporting to Esmée should be easy for you and valuable for both of us. We will only ask for information we need and use. Terms & Conditions Information on the general Terms & Conditions for organisations who accept a grant from the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation. Read more Terms & Conditions Information on the general Terms & Conditions for organisations who accept a grant from the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation. Overview of grant funding 2024 Find an overview of the grants we made in 2024, broken down by type of support, amount awarded, and by aim and funding priority. We also share success rates for applications in 2024. Read more Overview of grant funding 2024 Find an overview of the grants we made in 2024, broken down by type of support, amount awarded, and by aim and funding priority. We also share success rates for applications in 2024. Open and trusting grant-making Learn about our commitments to open and trusting grant-making, which is part of a campaign launched by the Institute for Voluntary Action Research (IVAR). Read more Open and trusting grant-making Learn about our commitments to open and trusting grant-making, which is part of a campaign launched by the Institute for Voluntary Action Research (IVAR). Living Wage Funder Esmée Fairbairn Foundation is a Living Wage funder. Read more to find out what that means for our funding. Read more Living Wage Funder Esmée Fairbairn Foundation is a Living Wage funder. Read more to find out what that means for our funding. Safeguarding Learn about our approach to safeguarding at each stage of our funding process. Read more Safeguarding Learn about our approach to safeguarding at each stage of our funding process. Learn more about our funding Our funding data We publish all our grants and social investments on 360Giving, an initiative that aims to help UK funders share their data in an open and standard format online. Read more Our funding data We publish all our grants and social investments on 360Giving, an initiative that aims to help UK funders share their data in an open and standard format online. Funding partnerships We want to be at the forefront of new approaches to funding - working in partnership with other funders and organisations to increase our reach and make more of a difference. Read more Funding partnerships We want to be at the forefront of new approaches to funding - working in partnership with other funders and organisations to increase our reach and make more of a difference. Funding Plus We offer a range of capacity building support to organisations we fund to help them achieve greater impact. Read more Funding Plus We offer a range of capacity building support to organisations we fund to help them achieve greater impact. Finding more support Other sources of funding help Information on other funding sources including a comprehensive guide to fundraising for small organisations. Read more Other sources of funding help Information on other funding sources including a comprehensive guide to fundraising for small organisations. Useful Sector Resources Useful sector resources on a range of topics including legal, mental health, fundraising, campaigning, digital and safeguarding. Read more Useful Sector Resources Useful sector resources on a range of topics including legal, mental health, fundraising, campaigning, digital and safeguarding.