Effervescent We aim to improve our natural world, secure a fairer future and strengthen the bonds in communities in the UK We do this by contributing all that we can to unlock change by people and organisations with brilliant ideas who share our goals. You can explore our impact goals and priorities for the first five years for each aim below. Our Natural World We want to ensure that our natural world is restored and protected and that people benefit from that recovery. Through our work, we want to make a significant difference on climate change. Read more Our Natural World We want to ensure that our natural world is restored and protected and that people benefit from that recovery. Through our work, we want to make a significant difference on climate change. A Fairer Future We want to contribute to a just and anti-racist society, where those who need it most have their rights protected, the opportunity to speak and be heard, and the freedom to express their creativity. Read more A Fairer Future We want to contribute to a just and anti-racist society, where those who need it most have their rights protected, the opportunity to speak and be heard, and the freedom to express their creativity. Creative, Confident Communities We want to strengthen the bonds in communities, helping local people to build vibrant, confident places where they can fulfil their creative, human and economic potential. Read more Creative, Confident Communities We want to strengthen the bonds in communities, helping local people to build vibrant, confident places where they can fulfil their creative, human and economic potential. Using all our tools Working in collaboration with others, we use all our tools to achieve our goals. So, in addition to funding brilliant organisations through grants and social investment, we are taking a more active role ourselves: brokering alliances, using our influence and removing barriers. In partnership Using our experience and expertise, we work in partnership with other funders and organisations to co-design solutions and influence larger initiatives so that we can effect broader change. This includes exploring new approaches to funding to increase our reach and share learning. Examples include our funding partnerships such as the Act for Change Fund, Local Motion and Arts and Culture Impact Fund. Learn more about our work Our funding data We publish all our grants and social investments on 360Giving, an initiative that aims to help UK funders share their data in an open and standard format online. Find out more Our funding data We publish all our grants and social investments on 360Giving, an initiative that aims to help UK funders share their data in an open and standard format online. Insights and learning We share insights from our work along with research and evaluation we've commissioned, and key publications from work we fund. Find out more Insights and learning We share insights from our work along with research and evaluation we've commissioned, and key publications from work we fund. You might be interested in 29 September 2025 Consultant to undertake due diligence on Big Nature Impact Fund: Invitation to tender We are seeking an external consultant (or organisation) to carry out independent due diligence on the Big Nature Impact Fund (BNIF), a new £90m fund being launched by Finance Earth to support nature recovery projects in England. Read more Consultant to undertake due diligence on Big Nature Impact Fund: Invitation to tender We are seeking an external consultant (or organisation) to carry out independent due diligence on the Big Nature Impact Fund (BNIF), a new £90m fund being launched by Finance Earth to support nature recovery projects in England. 29 September 2025 Consultant to assess high-integrity carbon markets in the UK: Invitation to tender We are seeking an external consultant (or organisation) to evaluate the financial and impact risks and opportunities of high-integrity carbon markets in the UK. Read more Consultant to assess high-integrity carbon markets in the UK: Invitation to tender We are seeking an external consultant (or organisation) to evaluate the financial and impact risks and opportunities of high-integrity carbon markets in the UK. 24 September 2025 Pre-application Q&A Webinar: 17 September 2025 Watch a pre-application Q&A webinar we held on 17 September 2025 for organisations interested in applying to Esmée for support who have questions about our application process or guidance. Read more Pre-application Q&A Webinar: 17 September 2025 Watch a pre-application Q&A webinar we held on 17 September 2025 for organisations interested in applying to Esmée for support who have questions about our application process or guidance. 26 August 2025 Diversity, equity and inclusion support webinar: 14 October 2025 We're hosting a webinar on 14 October 2025 to discuss the findings and share more reflections from our review of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) support provided to organisations we fund through Funding Plus. Read more Diversity, equity and inclusion support webinar: 14 October 2025 We're hosting a webinar on 14 October 2025 to discuss the findings and share more reflections from our review of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) support provided to organisations we fund through Funding Plus.