Little Ouse Headwaters Project (LOHP) We learn so that we, and the organisations we work with, can make intelligent and evidence-based decisions about how to be effective in a complex environment. Our approach to learning is guided by two questions: What does the world look like for the issues, organisations and people we support? Where are we making most and least progress and why? Below you'll find our insights reports - sharing what we've learned from our funding - along with research or evaluation reports we've commissioned, and key publications from work we fund. Do also take a look in Latest for news and blogs about our work. Esmée's insights and learning We share learning from our funding and work with partners, including our Involving Young People Collective. Find out more Esmée's insights and learning We share learning from our funding and work with partners, including our Involving Young People Collective. Research and evaluation reports Find research and evaluation reports we've commissioned, and key publications from work we support. Find out more Research and evaluation reports Find research and evaluation reports we've commissioned, and key publications from work we support. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our commitments on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion as an organisation and through our work. Find out more Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our commitments on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion as an organisation and through our work. Climate Change Read about our commitment to addressing the causes and impacts of climate change. Find out more Climate Change Read about our commitment to addressing the causes and impacts of climate change. Open and trusting grant-making Learn about our commitments to open and trusting grant-making, which is part of a campaign launched by the Institute for Voluntary Action Research (IVAR). Find out more Open and trusting grant-making Learn about our commitments to open and trusting grant-making, which is part of a campaign launched by the Institute for Voluntary Action Research (IVAR). You might be interested in 10 October 2025 Diversity, equity and inclusion support: Funding Plus case studies We're sharing case studies of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion work paid for through Funding Plus to help anyone looking to commission or embark on similar work. Read more Diversity, equity and inclusion support: Funding Plus case studies We're sharing case studies of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion work paid for through Funding Plus to help anyone looking to commission or embark on similar work. 09 October 2025 Business action on nature in the UK and guide to nature finance We're pleased to share a new report by Will McDonald for Esmée Fairbairn Foundation, which explores how business in the UK is taking action on nature and the drivers behind it. You can also find a practical guide to the different types of nature finance and watch our webinar where we explore the findings. Read more Business action on nature in the UK and guide to nature finance We're pleased to share a new report by Will McDonald for Esmée Fairbairn Foundation, which explores how business in the UK is taking action on nature and the drivers behind it. You can also find a practical guide to the different types of nature finance and watch our webinar where we explore the findings. 30 September 2025 Seascapes: Restoring the UK marine environment, Webinar on 20 October We’re excited to share a new report by Pelagos Consulting on how to scale and sustain marine recovery across the UK. Morven Robertson, Esmée’s Funding Manager, reflects on what this means for our future approach. We’ll also be hosting a webinar to discuss the findings and next steps. Read more Seascapes: Restoring the UK marine environment, Webinar on 20 October We’re excited to share a new report by Pelagos Consulting on how to scale and sustain marine recovery across the UK. Morven Robertson, Esmée’s Funding Manager, reflects on what this means for our future approach. We’ll also be hosting a webinar to discuss the findings and next steps. 10 September 2025 Funding women’s access to justice A new report from the Corston Independent Funders’ Coalition aims to map their collective funding towards women’s access to justice. Read more Funding women’s access to justice A new report from the Corston Independent Funders’ Coalition aims to map their collective funding towards women’s access to justice.