Hubbub UK We take an impact-first approach to social investment, shaping investment to support our aims. We start with the social or environmental need and tailor the investment, offering complete flexibility. Co-design and learning are integral to our process. As well as making direct investments into organisations seeking to create impact towards our aims , we also invest into impact funds, which are managed by other social investors. Investing in Our Natural World We offer social investment to organisations working on nature-based solutions towards: preserved species health and habitats, sustainable and ethical food, and clean and healthy freshwater. Read more Investing in Our Natural World We offer social investment to organisations working on nature-based solutions towards: preserved species health and habitats, sustainable and ethical food, and clean and healthy freshwater. Partner in Place We developed Partner in Place to offer social investment that is place-led and takes a partnership approach. It is aimed at organisations working to ensure local economies work better for the people who live there. Read more Partner in Place We developed Partner in Place to offer social investment that is place-led and takes a partnership approach. It is aimed at organisations working to ensure local economies work better for the people who live there. Investing in A Fairer Future To secure A Fairer Future, we offer social investment to organisations who are working to address systemic injustice and inequity. Read more Investing in A Fairer Future To secure A Fairer Future, we offer social investment to organisations who are working to address systemic injustice and inequity. Explore our social investments Since making our first social investment in 1997, we have approved over £80m in 200 plus social investments. Apply for social investment Learn more about what we do and don't support, along with information about the application process. Learn more For free tools and resources to help you navigate the world of social investment, visit Good Finance . Building an impact-first social investment strategy We share what being impact-first means in practice and what we've learned. Read more Building an impact-first social investment strategy We share what being impact-first means in practice and what we've learned. Our approach to Social Investment Social investment is one of the tools we use, alongside grants and our own actions, to achieve our impact goals. Read more Our approach to Social Investment Social investment is one of the tools we use, alongside grants and our own actions, to achieve our impact goals. Portfolio breakdown See a breakdown of our social investment portfolio by aim and product type. Read more Portfolio breakdown See a breakdown of our social investment portfolio by aim and product type. Insights and Learning Understanding impact in social investments Understanding the impact of our social investments is critical for our learning and ensuring that we are an effective investor. In a new report, we outline how we assess the difference each social investment is intended to make, how we track its progress over time, and how that shapes our learning as an investor. Read more Understanding impact in social investments Understanding the impact of our social investments is critical for our learning and ensuring that we are an effective investor. In a new report, we outline how we assess the difference each social investment is intended to make, how we track its progress over time, and how that shapes our learning as an investor. How our impact-first approach led us to our first Perpetual Bond We share our learning from our social investment into Fair for You and our first Perpetual Bond along with how it could open up finance options for social purpose organisations looking for equity-like investment. Read more How our impact-first approach led us to our first Perpetual Bond We share our learning from our social investment into Fair for You and our first Perpetual Bond along with how it could open up finance options for social purpose organisations looking for equity-like investment. Impact-linked finance: what do we know about it so far? A new report by Investing for Good, and commissioned by Esmée, provides a global review of impact-linked finance and explores the potential for adaptability for the UK social and impact investment market. Read more Impact-linked finance: what do we know about it so far? A new report by Investing for Good, and commissioned by Esmée, provides a global review of impact-linked finance and explores the potential for adaptability for the UK social and impact investment market. Insights in Brief: Social Investment and COVID-19 A new report sharing what we've learned from our social investments in light of Coronavirus, and how we could use this to inform the stages of rescue, recovery and revival. Read more Insights in Brief: Social Investment and COVID-19 A new report sharing what we've learned from our social investments in light of Coronavirus, and how we could use this to inform the stages of rescue, recovery and revival. Emerging funding opportunities for the natural environment We are pleased to share a new report: Emerging funding opportunities for the natural environment, which we commissioned to review the current landscape for innovative funding of environmental enhancement across the UK. Read more Emerging funding opportunities for the natural environment We are pleased to share a new report: Emerging funding opportunities for the natural environment, which we commissioned to review the current landscape for innovative funding of environmental enhancement across the UK. Evolution not revolution, 10 years of social investment To mark the 10th anniversary of our Social Investment Fund, we’ve written a report reflecting on the achievements, insights and lessons learned to date. Read more Evolution not revolution, 10 years of social investment To mark the 10th anniversary of our Social Investment Fund, we’ve written a report reflecting on the achievements, insights and lessons learned to date. You might be interested in 29 September 2025 Consultant to undertake due diligence on Big Nature Impact Fund: Invitation to tender We are seeking an external consultant (or organisation) to carry out independent due diligence on the Big Nature Impact Fund (BNIF), a new £90m fund being launched by Finance Earth to support nature recovery projects in England. Read more Consultant to undertake due diligence on Big Nature Impact Fund: Invitation to tender We are seeking an external consultant (or organisation) to carry out independent due diligence on the Big Nature Impact Fund (BNIF), a new £90m fund being launched by Finance Earth to support nature recovery projects in England. 29 September 2025 Consultant to assess high-integrity carbon markets in the UK: Invitation to tender We are seeking an external consultant (or organisation) to evaluate the financial and impact risks and opportunities of high-integrity carbon markets in the UK. Read more Consultant to assess high-integrity carbon markets in the UK: Invitation to tender We are seeking an external consultant (or organisation) to evaluate the financial and impact risks and opportunities of high-integrity carbon markets in the UK. 24 June 2025 Environmental Finance and Learning Fund: increasing the supply of nature-first investment Jenny Sansom from Environmental Funders Network and Tom Colborne from Esmée share their reflections on the Environmental Finance and Learning Fund, a three-year initiative to build confidence and skills in environmental investing, and increase the amount of funding for impactful environmental projects. Read more Environmental Finance and Learning Fund: increasing the supply of nature-first investment Jenny Sansom from Environmental Funders Network and Tom Colborne from Esmée share their reflections on the Environmental Finance and Learning Fund, a three-year initiative to build confidence and skills in environmental investing, and increase the amount of funding for impactful environmental projects. 17 June 2025 Financing the future of UK sustainable agriculture: from policy to investment After the Spending Review confirmed £2.7 billion a year for farming, food security and nature recovery, we asked Thomas Slattery and Hayley Mole, authors of our first investment deep dive into sustainable food and agriculture, how the policy landscape can enable the significant investment needed to transform the UK food system. Read more Financing the future of UK sustainable agriculture: from policy to investment After the Spending Review confirmed £2.7 billion a year for farming, food security and nature recovery, we asked Thomas Slattery and Hayley Mole, authors of our first investment deep dive into sustainable food and agriculture, how the policy landscape can enable the significant investment needed to transform the UK food system. 25 March 2025 Invitation to Tender: Expanded Land Purchase Facility options Invitation to Tender: We're looking to work with a consultant to scope and design options for an expanded and collaborative Land Purchase Facility. Read more Invitation to Tender: Expanded Land Purchase Facility options Invitation to Tender: We're looking to work with a consultant to scope and design options for an expanded and collaborative Land Purchase Facility. 25 March 2025 Playing to our strengths: social and impact investing Jonny Page, Esmée's Director of Social and Impact Investment, writes about how we're working towards aligning our investments with our mission to drive social and environmental impact across key areas like social justice, conservation, and community development. Read more Playing to our strengths: social and impact investing Jonny Page, Esmée's Director of Social and Impact Investment, writes about how we're working towards aligning our investments with our mission to drive social and environmental impact across key areas like social justice, conservation, and community development. 11 December 2024 A thematic approach to impact investing With the launch of Esmée Fairbairn Foundation’s first deep dive into thematic impact investing, our Head of Social and Impact Investment, Jonny Page outlines our thematic approach to impact investing. Read more A thematic approach to impact investing With the launch of Esmée Fairbairn Foundation’s first deep dive into thematic impact investing, our Head of Social and Impact Investment, Jonny Page outlines our thematic approach to impact investing.