Nudge Community Builders We offer grants and social investment. This page is about grants with information about what we do and don't fund, how to apply, and how to check your eligibility. Submitting an application: Before applying, read this page and see our funding priorities. Accessibility: We have additional accessibility-related support for applicants who have an accessibility issue with our application process, due to a disability. Social investment: For information about our social investment support, see our social investment guidance . Are we the right funder for you? We fund organisations that we believe will make the greatest long-term impact and change systems for the future - work that has the potential for wider influence or spread; takes a collaborative approach; and centres lived experience, justice and equity. We focus our support on a small number of longer-term grants for organisations and work that fit our strategy. We make around 200 grants a year across our 13 funding priorities and demand for our funding is very high. In 2024, 6% of expressions of interest received through our website went on to be awarded a grant. Costs: we support organisations’ core or projects costs, including staff salaries and overheads. We also provide unrestricted funding for charities Amount: the minimum amount we offer is £30,000 and we have no maximum amount Time: the majority of our grants are for three to five years, but we have no minimum or maximum term. Organisations: we support constituted organisations, including charities and non-charities doing charitable work. What we do and don't fund Our general criteria and exclusions are below. You can find further guidance and applicant resources - including FAQs and downloadable versions of the guidance - using the menu at the top of this page. We fund work that is... A strong fit for our strategy Is working towards the long-term outcomes in line with our funding priorities Ambitious and/or doing something new to create systemic change Can create sustainable change that lasts and/or leave a positive legacy Is informed by evidence and experience, with a solid understanding of the context Aims for wider influence and impact Goes beyond providing service delivery with a wider influence and impact Seeks to influence policy, practice, attitudes or behaviour Has potential to be scaled up, replicated or has scope to spread Centres lived experience, justice and equity Is driven or shaped by those with lived experience of the issues and/or is community-led Centres justice and equity in how they work including how they engage and involve people who face injustice and/or barriers, and amplifies their voices Takes a collaborative approach Works in equitable partnership or collaboration Has a clear understanding of their role and good connections to their communities, relevant networks, and grassroots groups We don't fund... These types of organisations Organisations with a turnover of less than £100,000 (as reflected in the latest set of accounts) Organisations that are not constituted Organisations who do not have measures in place to guard against disproportionate ' personal benefit ’ These types of costs Capital costs including building work, renovations and equipment Grants to individuals Grants for less than £30,000 These types of work Work that is not legally charitable – defined as work that falls within one of 13 descriptions of charitable purposes and is for the public benefit Work that does not have a direct benefit in the UK Work that is primarily the responsibility of statutory authorities using public funds e.g. social services Academic research unless it can demonstrate practical outcomes Independent education – work that takes place or is delivered by fee-paying schools Healthcare: clinical, counselling, hospices, therapy, addiction services, or medical research Promotion of religion How to apply Watch our short video to find out how to apply. Unless specified otherwise, we accept applications on a rolling basis with no deadlines. Nudge Community Builders Check your eligibility Before investing more time in applying, check your organisation and work meets our minimum eligibility criteria. Youth Leads UK Next: our funding priorities Learn more about our funding priorities to understand whether your work is a good fit. This will help you decide whether it's worth spending time submitting an application.