Styal Prison, Prison Radio Association Funding Plus is funding for capacity building provided to organisations we fund to help them achieve greater impact. The maximum Funding Plus award is £9,000. If we currently fund you with a grant or social investment, you can apply for funding to commission tailored training, mental health & wellbeing support, strategy & organisational development, and communications consultancy. You can learn more about the full range of support available below. Funding Plus is a responsive demand-led fund that enables organisations to make the most of opportunities, deal with challenges, and to commission support they might not otherwise be able to afford or prioritise. It should enable the work we’ve funded to have a greater impact. Please note that as there is currently more demand for this type of support, we will be prioritising requests from organisations that: Have not yet received Funding Plus support Are led by and for communities experiencing racial inequity Further information on the types of support available, how to apply, and our decision-making process, is below. You may also find more support in useful sector resources , which has links to free resources and guides covering topics ranging from trustee recruitment to impact and evaluation. Applying for Funding Plus Information about the types of support available through Funding Plus, what we don't fund, how to apply for support, and how we make decisions. Learn more A rough guide to setting project budgets Our quick guide to preparing and agreeing project budgets. Please note that it is by no means a definitive guide... However, we hope you find it useful! Read more A rough guide to setting project budgets Our quick guide to preparing and agreeing project budgets. Please note that it is by no means a definitive guide... However, we hope you find it useful! A rough guide to preparing a tender process Our quick guide on how to develop a tender or commissioning process for projects. Please note that it is by no means a definitive guide - your process will depend on the scope and size of your project. Read more A rough guide to preparing a tender process Our quick guide on how to develop a tender or commissioning process for projects. Please note that it is by no means a definitive guide - your process will depend on the scope and size of your project. Recruiting for Diversity In an event we hosted on recruiting for diversity, we heard from Campaign Bootcamp, Diverse City and Women in Prison who shared their experiences as well as good practice examples for organisations looking to improve on diversity and inclusion. Read more Recruiting for Diversity In an event we hosted on recruiting for diversity, we heard from Campaign Bootcamp, Diverse City and Women in Prison who shared their experiences as well as good practice examples for organisations looking to improve on diversity and inclusion. Finding more support We've listed links to free or low cost advice, training and consultancy, and other resources available to charities, social enterprises and not-for-profits. Funding Plus in 2022 £490K Awarded in total Awarded in total £6,000 Average grant Average grant 65 Organisations received consultancy support Organisations received consultancy support 72 Grants awarded Grants awarded