West London Zone We aim to improve our natural world, secure a fairer future and strengthen the bonds in communities in the UK. We do this by contributing all that we can to unlock change by people and organisations with brilliant ideas who share our goals. To learn more about our strategy, do also watch our webinar where the Esmée Team share some of the thinking behind our strategy and how we make decisions. Please note that we updated our strategy for Creative, Confident Communities in November 2021 , and our strategy for A Fairer Future in July 2022 . We updated our strategy again in September 2023 , extending our commitment to the funding priorities we identified to 2027. You can also see our original strategy . Our approach Learn more about our current work and approach to delivering our strategy. Our roadmap for improving our natural world – what more can we do? To improve Our Natural World, we have developed a roadmap we have been working to. In a series of blogs, we share how we are getting on as well as our plans for the coming year. Read more Our roadmap for improving our natural world – what more can we do? To improve Our Natural World, we have developed a roadmap we have been working to. In a series of blogs, we share how we are getting on as well as our plans for the coming year. Insights from place-led funding Read our Insights report where we share learning from the place-led funding we’ve done over the past five years, which has informed and shaped our strategy in Creative, Confident Communities. Read more Insights from place-led funding Read our Insights report where we share learning from the place-led funding we’ve done over the past five years, which has informed and shaped our strategy in Creative, Confident Communities. Young People Leaving Care funding: Learning Programme A Learning Programme runs alongside our Young People Leaving Care funding stream to facilitate learning between grantees, and to draw out collective insight to help improve the wider care leaver system. Read more Young People Leaving Care funding: Learning Programme A Learning Programme runs alongside our Young People Leaving Care funding stream to facilitate learning between grantees, and to draw out collective insight to help improve the wider care leaver system. Learn more Insights and learning We share insights from our work along with research and evaluation we've commissioned, and key publications from work we fund. Read more Insights and learning We share insights from our work along with research and evaluation we've commissioned, and key publications from work we fund. Our aims Learn more about our impact goals and priorities for the next five years. We also share insights and learning as well as information about what we fund. Read more Our aims Learn more about our impact goals and priorities for the next five years. We also share insights and learning as well as information about what we fund. Our support Working in collaboration with others, we use all our tools to achieve our shared goals and to effect broader change. Learn more about our range of tools and support. Read more Our support Working in collaboration with others, we use all our tools to achieve our shared goals and to effect broader change. Learn more about our range of tools and support.