Keep up-to-date with our latest news Celebrating 60 years of Esmée In 2021, Esmée Fairbairn Foundation turned 60. We wanted to take some time to reflect over the last 60 years, and to celebrate the breadth of our work and all that we have achieved working with so many brilliant people and partners. Our Natural World We want to ensure that our natural world is restored and protected and that people benefit from that recovery. Working with others, we will contribute to three key impact goals: preserved and improved species health and habitats, clean and healthy freshwater, and sustainable and ethical food. A Fairer Future We want to contribute to a socially just and anti-racist society, where people have their rights protected, as well as the opportunity to speak and be heard, and the freedom to express their creativity. And across all our work in A Fairer Future, we are keen to support organisations led by the people they serve. Creative, Confident Communities We want to strengthen the bonds in communities, helping local people to build vibrant, confident places where they can fulfil their creative, human and economic potential. Places where the local economy works better for the people who live there, where there is equality of access to arts and culture, and where communities are at the heart of change. Our impact £1,020.5m Total grants made since 1961 Total grants made since 1961 £48.8m Funding spend in 2024 Funding spend in 2024 £60m Allocation to social investment Allocation to social investment 66% Grants for core or unrestricted costs in 2024 Grants for core or unrestricted costs in 2024 About Esmée Learn about our people, our governance and history as well as our approach to investment and see our annual reports. Find out more About Esmée Learn about our people, our governance and history as well as our approach to investment and see our annual reports. Our aims Learn more about our impact goals and priorities for the next five years. We also share insights and learning as well as information about what we fund. Find out more Our aims Learn more about our impact goals and priorities for the next five years. We also share insights and learning as well as information about what we fund. Our support Working in collaboration with others, we use all our tools to achieve our shared goals and to effect broader change. Learn more about our range of tools and support. Find out more Our support Working in collaboration with others, we use all our tools to achieve our shared goals and to effect broader change. Learn more about our range of tools and support. Open and trusting grant-making Learn about our commitments to open and trusting grant-making, which is part of a campaign launched by the Institute for Voluntary Action Research (IVAR). Find out more Open and trusting grant-making Learn about our commitments to open and trusting grant-making, which is part of a campaign launched by the Institute for Voluntary Action Research (IVAR). Involving young people We want to do better at listening to and involving young people more directly with our work so we're working with the Involving Young People Collective to help us design and test ways in which we can do this. Find out more Involving young people We want to do better at listening to and involving young people more directly with our work so we're working with the Involving Young People Collective to help us design and test ways in which we can do this. You might be interested in 10 October 2025 Diversity, equity and inclusion support: Funding Plus case studies We're sharing case studies of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion work paid for through Funding Plus to help anyone looking to commission or embark on similar work. Read more Diversity, equity and inclusion support: Funding Plus case studies We're sharing case studies of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion work paid for through Funding Plus to help anyone looking to commission or embark on similar work. 09 October 2025 Business action on nature in the UK and guide to nature finance We're pleased to share a new report by Will McDonald for Esmée Fairbairn Foundation, which explores how business in the UK is taking action on nature and the drivers behind it. You can also find a practical guide to the different types of nature finance and watch our webinar where we explore the findings. Read more Business action on nature in the UK and guide to nature finance We're pleased to share a new report by Will McDonald for Esmée Fairbairn Foundation, which explores how business in the UK is taking action on nature and the drivers behind it. You can also find a practical guide to the different types of nature finance and watch our webinar where we explore the findings. 30 September 2025 Seascapes: Restoring the UK marine environment, Webinar on 20 October We’re excited to share a new report by Pelagos Consulting on how to scale and sustain marine recovery across the UK. Morven Robertson, Esmée’s Funding Manager, reflects on what this means for our future approach. We’ll also be hosting a webinar to discuss the findings and next steps. Read more Seascapes: Restoring the UK marine environment, Webinar on 20 October We’re excited to share a new report by Pelagos Consulting on how to scale and sustain marine recovery across the UK. Morven Robertson, Esmée’s Funding Manager, reflects on what this means for our future approach. We’ll also be hosting a webinar to discuss the findings and next steps. 29 September 2025 Consultant to undertake due diligence on Big Nature Impact Fund: Invitation to tender We are seeking an external consultant (or organisation) to carry out independent due diligence on the Big Nature Impact Fund (BNIF), a new £90m fund being launched by Finance Earth to support nature recovery projects in England. Read more Consultant to undertake due diligence on Big Nature Impact Fund: Invitation to tender We are seeking an external consultant (or organisation) to carry out independent due diligence on the Big Nature Impact Fund (BNIF), a new £90m fund being launched by Finance Earth to support nature recovery projects in England. Newsletter signup Stay up-to-date with emails from Esmée Fairbairn Foundation. You'll receive updates on what we've been up to, what we have coming up and news about the sector. You can unsubscribe at any time.