Participatory City We use all our tools to unlock change We want to play an active role ourselves in responding to the critical issues facing our society. As a funder we have a range of tools – including grants and investments - we can use to effect change. We will now use all our tools to broker alliances, use our influence and remove barriers to achieve our impact goals. Grants We support organisations' charitable work with unrestricted, core and project grants. Learn more about our approach to funding and what you can expect from us. Read more Grants We support organisations' charitable work with unrestricted, core and project grants. Learn more about our approach to funding and what you can expect from us. Social Investment We use social investment as a tool, alongside our grants and our own actions, to achieve our impact goals. Learn more about our social investment opportunities. Read more Social Investment We use social investment as a tool, alongside our grants and our own actions, to achieve our impact goals. Learn more about our social investment opportunities. Funding Plus We offer a range of capacity building support to organisations we fund to help them achieve greater impact. Read more Funding Plus We offer a range of capacity building support to organisations we fund to help them achieve greater impact. Insights and learning We share insights from our work along with research and evaluation we've commissioned, and key publications from work we fund. Read more Insights and learning We share insights from our work along with research and evaluation we've commissioned, and key publications from work we fund. Funding partnerships We want to be at the forefront of new approaches to funding - working in partnership with other funders and organisations to increase our reach and make more of a difference. Read more Funding partnerships We want to be at the forefront of new approaches to funding - working in partnership with other funders and organisations to increase our reach and make more of a difference. Infrastructure support We want to enable a sector fit for the future by supporting work that contributes to our impact goals and work across our aims by enabling a stronger, inclusive and innovative sector. Read more Infrastructure support We want to enable a sector fit for the future by supporting work that contributes to our impact goals and work across our aims by enabling a stronger, inclusive and innovative sector. Convening and connecting We connect people and organisations to foster dialogue, share learning, create joint opportunities and develop new, collective approaches. We also work in partnership ourselves. New ideas We support new ideas which contribute to our impact goals as well as those which work across our aims to unblock barriers, test new approaches or build movements for change. Influencing and co-design We back the work we care about: co-designing initiatives, making links, and amplifying impact through our communications. We push for change on issues that are key to our impact goals. We recognise the expertise of others, through the Involving Young People Collective , and Our Natural World Advisory Panel . Data and digital We value the role that data and digital play in both our own strategy and those we fund. We publish our funding as open data , and embrace opportunities brought by tech innovation and are open to experimenting with new technologies that support our aims. Infrastructure We want to enable a sector fit for the future by supporting work that contributes to our impact goals and work across our aims by enabling a stronger, inclusive and innovative sector. This includes key infrastructure organisations and new ideas that unblock barriers, test new approaches or build movements for change. Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) Investment Strategy We are exploring how we might better use our role as an asset owner in support of our impact goals. We have also signed up to the funder commitment on climate change . Impact Investing We are testing the potential in achieving market-like returns by investing into impact funds which align to our impact goals and which generate a measurable impact. This work will be used to inform our longer-term investment strategy. Learn more about our approach to impact investing . Endowment We aim to align our investments with our charitable objectives, whilst maintaining a consistent real value for the endowment over the longer term. This ensures we can keep working to improve our natural world, secure a fairer future and strengthen the bonds in communities in the UK for decades to come. Communications about our funding Guidance for organisations we work with on communications about our funding, including logo files, press release quotes, and how to get in touch with our Communications team. Read more Communications about our funding Guidance for organisations we work with on communications about our funding, including logo files, press release quotes, and how to get in touch with our Communications team. Leave feedback for Esmée Find out about the different ways you can leave feedback for Esmée. Read more Leave feedback for Esmée Find out about the different ways you can leave feedback for Esmée. Our language and classifying our data Learn about what language we use when talking about people and communities. Read more Our language and classifying our data Learn about what language we use when talking about people and communities. Our funding data We publish all our grants and social investments on 360Giving, an initiative that aims to help UK funders share their data in an open and standard format online. Read more Our funding data We publish all our grants and social investments on 360Giving, an initiative that aims to help UK funders share their data in an open and standard format online. Safeguarding Learn about our approach to safeguarding at each stage of our funding process. Read more Safeguarding Learn about our approach to safeguarding at each stage of our funding process. Living Wage Funder Esmée Fairbairn Foundation is a Living Wage funder. Read more to find out what that means for our funding. Read more Living Wage Funder Esmée Fairbairn Foundation is a Living Wage funder. Read more to find out what that means for our funding. Useful sector resources Find useful sector resources on a range of topics including legal, fundraising, campaigning, digital and safeguarding. You might be interested in 10 October 2025 Diversity, equity and inclusion support: Funding Plus case studies We're sharing case studies of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion work paid for through Funding Plus to help anyone looking to commission or embark on similar work. Read more Diversity, equity and inclusion support: Funding Plus case studies We're sharing case studies of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion work paid for through Funding Plus to help anyone looking to commission or embark on similar work. 09 October 2025 Business action on nature in the UK and guide to nature finance We're pleased to share a new report by Will McDonald for Esmée Fairbairn Foundation, which explores how business in the UK is taking action on nature and the drivers behind it. You can also find a practical guide to the different types of nature finance and watch our webinar where we explore the findings. Read more Business action on nature in the UK and guide to nature finance We're pleased to share a new report by Will McDonald for Esmée Fairbairn Foundation, which explores how business in the UK is taking action on nature and the drivers behind it. You can also find a practical guide to the different types of nature finance and watch our webinar where we explore the findings. 30 September 2025 Seascapes: Restoring the UK marine environment, Webinar on 20 October We’re excited to share a new report by Pelagos Consulting on how to scale and sustain marine recovery across the UK. Morven Robertson, Esmée’s Funding Manager, reflects on what this means for our future approach. We’ll also be hosting a webinar to discuss the findings and next steps. Read more Seascapes: Restoring the UK marine environment, Webinar on 20 October We’re excited to share a new report by Pelagos Consulting on how to scale and sustain marine recovery across the UK. Morven Robertson, Esmée’s Funding Manager, reflects on what this means for our future approach. We’ll also be hosting a webinar to discuss the findings and next steps. 29 September 2025 Consultant to undertake due diligence on Big Nature Impact Fund: Invitation to tender We are seeking an external consultant (or organisation) to carry out independent due diligence on the Big Nature Impact Fund (BNIF), a new £90m fund being launched by Finance Earth to support nature recovery projects in England. Read more Consultant to undertake due diligence on Big Nature Impact Fund: Invitation to tender We are seeking an external consultant (or organisation) to carry out independent due diligence on the Big Nature Impact Fund (BNIF), a new £90m fund being launched by Finance Earth to support nature recovery projects in England.