News #iwill care and support disability & SEN higher education Holocaust education international development mental health NHS philanthropy Research and evaluation schools shared society social action young people The partnership is the first major UK-wide funding collaboration dedicated to tackling child poverty. Two national programmes will provide teachers and school leaders across England with new training and resources to protect pupils and strengthen critical thinking in the digital age. Residents of Kent and Medway who need help to manage a mental health crisis will now be able to find that support at a 24/7 crisis and recovery house. 360 Giving launch the second edition of UKGrantmaking With our partners at Public First and STAR Academies we carried out the biggest ever study into online conspiracy theories and misinformation in English schools, including teachers, parents and young people across the country. Our findings make sobering reading. Online conspiracy, misinformation and disinformation are rife in our classrooms and teachers lack the tools and confidence to address it. To mark #iWill Week 2024, we’re very pleased to share this guest blog from the Association of Colleges. In this blog we explore the life-changing impact this funding had on Florence Smith-Drayson’s education journey, turning her passion for creating positive change into a rewarding career. Each year the Foundation’s trustees identify a number of small, community-based organisations to receive a surprise seasonal boost of unrestricted funding. 360 Giving launch a new interactive platform, with the support of Pears Foundation, to provide an overview of grantmaking in the UK. The Commission on Countering Online Conspiracy in Schools will explore how online conspiracy theories, as well as misinformation and disinformation, are manifesting in the classroom. Each year the Foundation’s trustees identify a number of small, community-based organisations to receive a surprise seasonal boost of unrestricted funding. Imperial College London and the University of Cumbria, with philanthropic support from Pears Foundation, have come together to create the Pears Cumbria School of Medicine. The building is named after Clarice Pears, mother of the Pears Foundation’s three founders and trustees and the Foundation contributed £5 million towards its construction. The Pears Jewish Centre will transform Jewish life in Berlin. The fund aims to ensure that as many vital youth services as possible are able to keep the lights on and support young people in their local community. Each year the Foundation’s trustees identify a number of small, community-based organisations to receive a surprise seasonal boost of unrestricted funding. The launch of a new report from the Institute of Voluntary Action Research into the power of youth volunteering in NHS Trusts Pears Foundation is delighted to announce the launch today of two new reports by the King’s Fund on Volunteering in NHS Trusts. The Foundation will be investing £550,000, matched with £550,000 from DCMS, in six of its existing partner organisations Each year the Foundation’s trustees identify a number of small, community-based organisations to receive a surprise seasonal boost of unrestricted funding. Celebrating the Power of Youth with our NHS #iwill Fund Trusts this #iwill week Scientists have moved into the Pears Building which is a collaboration between the Royal Free Charity, UCL and the Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust (RFL). “Whilst many feel that caring is one of the most important things they do, its challenges should not be underestimated.” From 4 May 2021 the Institute will be referred to as the Institute for the Study of Antisemitism. The Soapy project began in 2017 as part of the Pears Challenge with the Pears Programme for Global Innovation. Shoshana Boyd Gelfand reflects on the upcoming lockdown anniversary We are delighted to be partnering on a new project launched today to create a Young People’s Forest in Scotland,… Christmas Gifts are our way of marking the festive season in a spirit of generosity and appreciation for the incredible work of local charities. Pears Foundation signs up to the Power of Youth Charter Pears Foundation is investing £1 million in a national programme to reduce the need for food banks. Pears Foundation is one of nineteen funders, foundations and philanthropists who are partnering with the Government’s Community Match Challenge The coronavirus outbreak has impacted everyone’s life. But for autistic people and their families, it has left them completely stranded…. Young volunteers share their volunteering experience through animation To mark Carers Week, we join the CEO of Carers Trust in his call for recognition and support for unpaid carers. Congratulations to the EKC Group who have been announced today as winners of the Pears #iWill Award for Social Action… We are delighted to share blogs highlighting the Power of Youth this Volunteers’ Week Following our Trustees’ statement on the extra funds they are committing to respond to the Covid-19 crisis, we have allocated over £1.3m since the beginning of April We know that the Coronavirus outbreak is having a substantial impact on individuals, communities and charities across the UK. We are so impressed by our wonderful Pears Partners who have developed resources to support their beneficiaries and the wider… We, along with a wider group of funders, recognise that the covid-19 outbreak is an exceptional event that will have… Huge congratulations from the Pears Foundation team. Marking Holocaust Memorial Day 2020 We are delighted to celebrate Student Volunteering Week 2020 by announcing new funding to Student Hubs through the Pears #iwill… New £2m capital grant to Kent and Medway Medical School! We are delighted to announce a new £5.5m grant for The Pears Maudsley Centre for Children and Young People Marking International Migrants Day with Coram Children’s Legal Centre We are pleased to share a birthday message written by our Executive Chair. The Christmas Gifts are our way to mark the festive season, each year the trustees identify a number of small, community based organisations to receive a surprise seasonal boost. Celebrating #iwill week 2019 By guest blogger Trisha Thompson, Head of Programmes & Learning at Carers Trust Winners of two major awards at the Building Better Healthcare Awards Here we welcome Dave Yates, to share this history and what it means for the two organisations today. The new projects will focus on various aspects of ageing and how it affects diabetes, vascular disease, neuro-degenerative disease such as Multiple Sclerosis, brain imaging, as well as the use of technology for macular disease research. We are pleased to share the Foundation Giving Trends 2019 We are pleased to announce the list of commended colleges for the Pears #iwill Beacon Award for Social Action and… A report released today finds that 2 in 3 autistic adults in England are not getting the support they need…. This Yorkshire Day, we wanted to celebrate the third year of partnering with Leeds Community Foundation to deliver the Pears Youth Fund. Congratulations to IEF We are so pleased the Pears Youth Fund is open for a third year. To celebrate the #PowerOfYouth this Volunteering Week, we’re delighted to publish a special blog from IVAR and our Pears #iWill Fund NHS Peer Network JustSpirulina featured on the news! We couldn’t be prouder of Woodrow’s Year 4 pupils who have learnt about the social issues surrounding homelessness and crucially what steps need to be taken to prevent it. This fund will work to develop greater respect and understanding between people of different backgrounds. We are thrilled to see the latest figures from the Scouts featured in the Guardian today. Her Royal Highness The Duchess of Cambridge opens the Pears Family School at the new Anna Freud Centre of Excellence The Trussell Trust’s latest figures show an 18.8% increase in use of food banks this year. Pears Foundation has more than doubled its annual support for unpaid carers across the UK. To mark Autism Awareness Week, we are thrilled to welcome guest blogger, Carol Povey, Director of the Centre for Autism… Hannah Breeze, Senior Programme Coordinator at RSA Academies gives an insight into the exciting new primary school social action project, RSA4. This International Women’s Day, we’re delighted to share a blog from Suhaiymah Manzoor-Khan on Maslaha’s collaborative project with British Fencing, ‘Muslim Girls Fence’. Dr Toby Simpson, Head of Development at The Wiener Library reflects on his experience attending part of the Pears Grantee Support Programme. UCL Institute of Education tops the ranks again! We are delighted to share the latest report from our fantastic Pears Partner IVAR. The report, Duty to Care? makes the… Celebrating Israeli and Jewish impact, for and with, some of the most disadvantaged people around the world. To celebrate Local Charities Day, we’re delighted to welcome Isaac Jones from First Give as our guest blogger Congratulations to our Executive Chair, Sir Trevor Pears for his Honorary Fellowship for Education from the Naz Legacy Foundation. Secretary… A set of principles to make grant reporting a shared, more meaningful and mutually beneficial experience. Lord Bourne visits Schools Linking Programme in Luton aimed at promoting community cohesion between pupils. Promoting well-being through engagement with nature Pears Foundation are delighted to announce a £5 million grant towards construction of a new building at the University of… Sir Trevor and Bridget were delighted to be at the launch of the UK’s first Young People’s Forest in Derbyshire… Tips & Tricks from Pears #iwill Fund NHS Trusts A selection of recommended readings from Pears Foundation’s Partners to mark Trustees’ Week 2018. Kawika Solidum, Director of Communications at Step up to Serve, reflects on his Action Learning Set experience Every year, the UCL Centre for Holocaust Education look to recruit up to 20 secondary schools in England committed to… RSA launch A whole-school approach to mental health The Holocaust Survivors Friendship Association, in partnership with the University of Huddersfield have opened The Holocaust Exhibition and Learning Centre today. How we use our away day to embed a culture of learning in the Foundation Pears Youth Fund, in partnership with Leeds Community Foundation, is now open! Launch of Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust’s young volunteers programme Are you fit for conflict? Daniel Wehrenfennig at TEDxBerlin Afrikids have opened the Pears Mother and Babies Centre at Operation Smiles in Northern Ghana. The first academic Centre for Philanthropy to be established in the UK, at the University of Kent, celebrates its 10th… A summary of our Dynamic Duo workshop: balancing the relationship between an organisation’s Chair and CEO. Girlguiding and The Scouts are joining forces for the first time to grow youth social action. We’re sharing our #iwillPledge today to mark our commitment to youth #socialaction for ALL young people. This month Shoshana reflects on attending the Impact for Good Conference with Sir Trevor Pears and President Rivlin. This Mental Health Awareness week we welcome Alison Critchley, Chief Executive, RSA Academies to explain their approach. BBC1 broadcast their feature documentary: Back to School with Mum and Dad, focusing on The Family School. TouchBase Pears won at RICS Regional Awards. Pears Foundation partner, SID (The Society for International Development – Israel branch) sponsored a cross-sector conference in Ethiopia to strengthen… BBC News and BBC World Service Podcast feature Hand in Hand integrated schools. Mental health counselling in primary schools could offer a six-fold return on investment, says Pro Bono Economics report. The latest findings from Step Up to Serve’s #iwill campaign survey. Trussell Trust end of year stats highlight stark figures. Dr Beth Breeze wins a prize for her book: The New Fundraisers: Who Organises Charitable Giving in Contemporary Society? An interview with Dina Gidron, Pears Foundation representative in Israel. National Autistic Society launch a training module to help understand and diagnose autism in women and girls. Francis Wight, Student Hubs CEO writes about professional development opportunities. Pears Foundation celebrates Amy Braier’s JJ Greenberg Award and 10 years of Jhub! Scientific collaboration leads new technological developments to address global challenges of ageing populations. Our guest blogger Dr Jane Collins, Chief Executive of Marie Curie writes for The Great Daffodil Appeal. A guest blog by Alison Hutchinson CBE, CEO of Pennies, the digital charity box. Find useful usable insights in 90 seconds. The UCL Centre for Holocaust Education welcomed survivors Ben Helfgott and Mala Tribich. This week the Society for International Development , Israel held its annual conference at the Knesset This blog features an article written by Susan Goodman for the Jerusalem Report, January 2018 We are excited to attend the Launch NHS70 increasing opportunities for young people to make a difference. A seasonal boost for young carers Carers UK launch new guide to mark Carers Rights Day 2017. This blog is co-authored by the Task Force Co-Chairs Sir Trevor Pears and Michael Wegier. To mark World Sight Day 2017 we welcome Dr Astrid Bonfield CBE as our guest blogger. The latest in a series of annual research reports ranking the top 300 Foundations by the value of their grant-making. This month we are celebrating the opening of Sense’s TouchBase Pears. This month we welcome out guest blogger Katie Sanderson from Elwick and District Young Farmers Club. In preparation for World Mental Health Day on the 10th October Anna Freud launch new campaign. Pears Foundation is supporting Jewish Care’s new multi-purpose Care Campus. This £47million redevelopment will see Princess Alexandra Care Home in… Pears partner JPR has launched new research into Antisemitism in the UK. The study takes an in-depth look at attitudes towards… Afrikids has begun building work on the Pears Mother and Babies Centre in Nakwaabi. Bridget attends NHS Expo 2017 to mark the launch of the first six NHS pilot sites funded through the Pears #iwill Fund. This month we welcome our guest blogger Deputy CEO Sarah Coward from The National Holocaust Centre and Museum. This month we welcome Sarah from the IA2G at Girlguiding to share the latest updates on their new four resources. We are pleased to welcome our guest blogger Eliza Buckley from IVAR, who is leading the NYSAF evaluation process. To mark Refugee Week 2017, Kari has written a blog about our work with the New Beginnings Fund. Knighthood for Trevor Pears. Jewish news interview with Trevor Pears and Dr Rilwan Raji. We are pleased to welcome our guest blogger Chris Mould, who led the Trussell Trust for ten years as Chairman. As part of Volunteering Week 2017 we are sharing our pledge and commitment to youth social action. We are pleased to welcome our guest blogger Melina Pelling, a young volunteer and Dementia Friends trainer. This month marked a special occasion in which we welcomed the Aziz Foundation to JHub. Max Rayne Hand in Hand School for Bilingual Education have won the Jerusalem Education Authority Prize 2016-17. We are excited to announce that we are now inviting targeted expressions of interest for funding. A series of principles that shape the way we engage with our work in the developing world. Samaritans have launched a new report into socioeconomic disadvantage and suicidal behaviour. Reflecting on ten years at Pears Foundation. On International Women’s Day 2017 we are highlighting the efforts addressing the gender imbalances in autism. We are pleased to announce the new £100,000 Pears Youth Fund in partnership with Leeds Community Foundation. We are pleased to welcome our guest blogger Michael Wegier, telling us about his recent study trip to the Negev region. Research released today by the #iwill campaign confirms the benefits to young people of taking in social action. To celebrate Student Volunteering Week we welcome our guest blogger Sara Fernandez from Student Hubs. The Streets Ahead Children’s Centre Association in Rwanda has completed building a new residential centre for girls. Young Carers Awareness Day is a national day of recognition for the UK’s 700,000 young carers. And what a busy year it has been! There is no better time to celebrate the act of giving than during the festive period. Reflections from Trevor Pears on helping those in the developing world. We are very pleased to welcome two members of 3FF’s Parliamentors Alumni Committee, Hashim Bhatti and Keerti Rajagopalan We are pleased to welcome Dr Triona Fitton, the Pears Philanthropy Fellow, to share her thoughts on the new course. The Institute for Voluntary Action Research have launched a new study: Thinking about Sustainability. Today marks the launch of the headline findings from the third National Youth Social Action Survey. Pears Foundation has pledged a total of £4 million over four years to match-fund the #iwill fund. A new report finds people who participate in the Scouts and Guides in childhood have better mental health in later life. The theme for the 2017 awards is ‘powering philanthropy’ and will celebrate the UK’s philanthropists. We are pleased to welcome Chris Burghes, CEO of the Royal Free Charity, as our guest blogger. Pears are proud to be part of New Beginnings Fund supporting organisations welcoming refugees and asylum seekers. Congratulations to the 2016 cohort of Pears Scholars, who graduated last week. World Hospice and Palliative Care Day Saturday 8 October and UK Hospice Care Week 3 – 9 Oct 2016 Reflections from a visit to explore youth social action in the US The Chief Rabbi has launched a new initiative promoting social action for young people. This month we are welcoming Ben Fuller who is part of the UCL Centre for Holocaust Education’s Beacon Schools programme. We are celebrating the opening of Ambitious College in North London, a day-college for young people with autism. Trevor Pears CMG is today receiving an Honorary Fellowship from UCL. As the Pears Project enters its third year we welcome Ben Powlesland from The Scout Association as our guest blogger. To celebrate BeyondMe’s fifth birthday we welcome Kawika Solidum from BeyondMe as our guest blogger. Congratulations to the Trussell Trust on their success at this year’s Charity Awards ceremony. Small Charity Week is about celebrating small charities and the vital work that they do for their local communities. Pears are proud to announce a donation of £2.5m to the Anna Freud Centre’s new centre of excellence. “Don’t know much about history, Don’t know much geography” Dave Brown from creative agency APE on his first trip to Israel to photograph some of our Israeli partners. World Autism Awareness Day Can we learn from the past? In celebration of St David’s Day, we welcome Liza Kellett from the Community Foundation in Wales as our guest blogger. Welcome to our new website! Unpacking our values Interview with Trevor Pears