Privacy Policy Welcome to the Pears Family Charitable Foundation (known as Pears Foundation)’s privacy notice. Pears Foundation respects your privacy and is committed to protecting your personal data. This privacy notice will inform you as to how we look after your personal data including when you visit our website (regardless of where you visit it from) and tell you about your privacy rights and how the law protects you. This privacy notice is provided in a layered format so you can click through to the specific areas set out below. Please also use the Glossary to understand the meaning of some of the terms used in this privacy notice. Important Information And Who We Are The Data We Collect About You If You Fail to Provide Personal Data How Is Your Personal Data Collected How We Use Your Personal Data Disclosures Of Your Personal Data International Transfers Data Security Data Retention Your Legal Rights Glossary Purpose of this privacy notice This privacy notice aims to give you information on how Pears Foundation collects and processes your personal data, including any data you may provide through this website when you visit. This website is not intended for children and we do not knowingly collect data relating to children. However, we may record children’s basic information if it is provided to us, including their name and data of birth. It is important that you read this privacy notice together with any other privacy notice or fair processing notice we may provide on specific occasions when we are collecting or processing personal data about you so that you are fully aware of how and why we are using your data. This privacy notice supplements the other notices and is not intended to override them. Controller Pears Foundation is the data controller and responsible for your personal data (collectively referred to as “Pears Foundation”, “we”, “us” or “our” in this privacy notice). We have appointed a data privacy manager who is responsible for overseeing questions in relation to this privacy notice. If you have any questions about this privacy notice, including any requests to exercise your legal rights, please contact the data privacy manager using the details set out below. Contact details Our full details are: Full name of legal entity: The Pears Family Charitable Foundation Name or title of data privacy manager: Ian Shaw Email address: dataprivacymanager@pearsfoundation.org.uk Postal address: Clive House 2 Old Brewery Mews, Hampstead, London NW3 1PZ You have the right to make a complaint at any time to the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO), the UK supervisory authority for data protection issues ( www.ico.org.uk ). We would, however, appreciate the chance to deal with your concerns before you approach the ICO and therefore request you please contact us in the first instance. Changes to the privacy notice and your duty to inform us of changes This version was last updated on 18/07/2022. It is important that the personal data we hold about you is accurate and current. Please keep us informed if your personal data changes during your relationship with us. Third-party links This website may include links to third-party websites, plug-ins and applications. Clicking on those links or enabling those connections may allow third parties to collect or share data about you. We do not control these third-party websites and are not responsible for their privacy statements. When you leave our website, we encourage you to read the privacy notice of every website you visit. Personal data, or personal information, means any information about an individual from which that person can be identified. It does not include data where the identity has been removed (anonymous data). We may collect, use, store and transfer different kinds of personal data about you which we have grouped together under the following headings. We may hold all, some or none of this information in respect of an individual: Identity Data includes first name, last name, username or similar identifier, title. Contact Data includes billing address, delivery address, email address and telephone numbers. Financial Data includes bank account, payment card details and credit reference reports. Transaction Data includes details about payments to and from you in relation to our grants. Technical Data includes internet protocol (IP) address, your login data, browser type and version, time zone setting and location, browser plug-in types and versions, operating system and platform and other technology on the devices you use to access our website. Usage Data includes information about how you use our website. Marketing and Communications Data includes your preferences in receiving marketing from us and your communication preferences. We also collect, use and share Aggregated Data such as statistical or demographic data for any purpose. Aggregated Data may be derived from your personal data but is not considered personal data in law as this data does not directly or indirectly reveal your identity. For example, we may aggregate your Usage Data to calculate the percentage of users accessing a specific website feature. However, if we combine or connect Aggregated Data with your personal data so that it can directly or indirectly identify you, we treat the combined data as personal data which will be used in accordance with this privacy notice. We do not collect any Special Categories of Personal Data about you (this includes details about your race or ethnicity, religious or philosophical beliefs, political opinions, trade union membership, information about your health and genetic and biometric data). Nor do we collect any information about criminal convictions and offences. We use CCTV at our offices for the purposes of safety and security. If you have any queries in relation to the use of CCTV please contact us. Where we need to collect personal data by law, or under the terms of a contract we have with you and you fail to provide that data when requested, we may not be able to perform the contract we have or are trying to enter into with you. We use different methods to collect data from and about you including through: Direct interactions . You may give us your Identity and Contact Data by filling in forms or by corresponding with us by post, phone, email or otherwise. This includes personal data you provide when you: Contact us via our website; or telephone us; or personal meetings. Contact us via our website; or telephone us; or personal meetings. Automated technologies or interactions. As you interact with our website, we may automatically collect Technical Data about your equipment, browsing actions and patterns. We collect this personal data by using cookies, server logs and other similar technologies. Third parties or publicly available sources. We may receive personal data about you from various third parties as set out below: Technical Data from analytics providers such as Google based outside of the EU. Contact Data, Financial Data and Transaction Data from independent referencing companies, current employers or credit agencies. Technical Data from analytics providers such as Google based outside of the EU. Contact Data, Financial Data and Transaction Data from independent referencing companies, current employers or credit agencies. We use the information provided to manage your relationship with us. We will only use your personal data when the law allows us to. Most commonly, we will use your personal data in the following circumstances: Where we need to perform the contract we are about to enter into or have entered into with you. Where it is necessary for our legitimate interests (or those of a third party) and your interests and fundamental rights do not override those interests. Where we need to comply with a legal or regulatory obligation. Click here to find out more about the types of lawful basis that we will rely on to process your personal data. Purposes for which we will use your personal data We have set out below, in a table format, a description of all the ways we plan to use your personal data, and which of the legal bases we rely on to do so. We have also identified what our legitimate interests are where appropriate. Note that we may process your personal data for more than one lawful ground depending on the specific purpose for which we are using your data. Please contact us if you need details about the specific legal ground we are relying on to process your personal data where more than one ground has been set out in the table below. Purpose/Activity Type of data Lawful basis for processing including basis of legitimate interest To register an account for you as a grantee (a) Identity (b) Contact Performance of a contract with you To manage our relationship with you which will include: (a) Managing your account (b) Managing receipts/payments (c) Maintaining and enhancing our services (d) Communicating information relevant and useful to you (a) Identity (b) Contact (c) Profile (a) Performance of a contract with you (b) Necessary to comply with a legal obligation (c) Necessary for our legitimate interests (to keep our records updated and to monitor the usefulness of our services) To administer and protect our business and this website (including troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, system maintenance, support, reporting and hosting of data) (a) Identity (b) Contact (c) Technical (a) Necessary for our legitimate interests (for running our business, provision of administration and IT services, network security, to prevent fraud and in the context of a business reorganisation or group restructuring exercise) (b) Necessary to comply with a legal obligation To deliver relevant website content to you and measure or understand the effectiveness of the content. (a) Identity (b) Contact (c) Usage (d) Marketing and Communications (e) Technical Necessary for our legitimate interests (to study how our services are used, to develop them, to improve our effectiveness and strategy) To make suggestions and recommendations to you about services that may be of interest to you (a) Identity (b) Contact (c) Technical (d) Usage (e) Profile Necessary for our legitimate interests (to develop our services and assist you) Marketing We strive to provide you with choices regarding certain personal data uses, particularly around marketing and advertising. We have established the following personal data control mechanisms: Promotional communications from us You will receive marketing communications from us if you have requested information from us and not opted out of receiving that marketing. Third-party marketing We will get your express opt-in consent before we share your personal data with any company outside of Pears Foundation for marketing purposes. Opting out You can ask us to stop sending you marketing messages by contacting us at any time. Cookies You can set your browser to refuse all or some browser cookies, or to alert you when websites set or access cookies. If you disable or refuse cookies, please note that some parts of this website may become inaccessible or not function properly. For more information about the cookies we use, please click here . Change of purpose We will only use your personal data for the purposes for which we collected it, unless we reasonably consider that we need to use it for another reason and that reason is compatible with the original purpose. If you wish to get an explanation as to how the processing for the new purpose is compatible with the original purpose, please contact us . If we need to use your personal data for an unrelated purpose, we will notify you and we will explain the legal basis which allows us to do so. Please note that we may process your personal data without your knowledge or consent, in compliance with the above rules, where this is required or permitted by law. We may have to share your personal data with the parties set out below for the purposes set out in the table in paragraph 4 above. Internal Third Parties as set out in the Glossary. External Third Parties as set out in the Glossary. Third parties to whom we may choose to sell, transfer, or merge parts of our business or our assets. Alternatively, we may seek to acquire other businesses or merge with them. If a change happens to our business, then the new owners may use your personal data in the same way as set out in this privacy notice. We require all third parties to respect the security of your personal data and to treat it in accordance with the law. We do not allow our third-party service providers to use your personal data for their own purposes and only permit them to process your personal data for specified purposes and in accordance with our instructions. The Foundation makes limited personal data transfers where appropriate, subject to the second subparagraph of Article 49(1) which are necessary for The Foundation’s compelling legitimate interests. The Foundation provides appropriate safeguards for these limited personal data transfers through standard contractual clauses as approved by the European Commission. At the current time the UK Regime has not finalised its documentation regarding international transfers of personal data. The Foundation will continue to operate under the EU regulations until such time as they are overridden by the UK. We have put in place appropriate security measures to prevent your personal data from being accidentally lost, used or accessed in an unauthorised way, altered or disclosed. In addition, we limit access to your personal data to those employees, agents, contractors and other third parties who have a business need to know. They will only process your personal data on our instructions and they are subject to a duty of confidentiality. We have put in place procedures to deal with any suspected personal data breach and will notify you and any applicable regulator of a breach where we are legally required to do so. How long will you use my personal data for? We will only retain your personal data for as long as necessary to fulfil the purposes we collected it for, including for the purposes of satisfying any legal, accounting, or reporting requirements. We use specific criteria to determine how long we retain your personal information for, determined by legal and operational considerations. We may keep other records for an extended period of time. In general, we endeavour to keep data only for as long as we need it. This means that we may delete it when it is no longer needed In some circumstances you can ask us to delete your data: see Request erasure below for further information. In some circumstances we may anonymise your personal data (so that it can no longer be associated with you) for research or statistical purposes in which case we may use this information indefinitely without further notice to you. Under certain circumstances, you have rights under data protection laws in relation to your personal data. Please click on the links below to find out more about these rights: Request access to your personal data . Request correction of your personal data . Request erasure of your personal data . Object to processing of your personal data . Request restriction of processing your personal data . Request transfer of your personal data . Right to withdraw consent . If you wish to exercise any of the rights set out above, please contact us. No fee usually required You will not have to pay a fee to access your personal data (or to exercise any of the other rights). However, we may charge a reasonable fee if your request is clearly unfounded, repetitive or excessive. Alternatively, we may refuse to comply with your request in these circumstances. What we may need from you We may need to request specific information from you to help us confirm your identity and ensure your right to access your personal data (or to exercise any of your other rights). This is a security measure to ensure that personal data is not disclosed to any person who has no right to receive it. We may also contact you to ask you for further information in relation to your request to speed up our response. Time limit to respond We try to respond to all legitimate requests within one month. Occasionally it may take us longer than a month if your request is particularly complex or you have made a number of requests. In this case, we will notify you and keep you updated. LAWFUL BASIS Legitimate Interest means the interest of our business in conducting and managing our business to enable us to give you the best service/product and the best and most secure experience. We make sure we consider and balance any potential impact on you (both positive and negative) and your rights before we process your personal data for our legitimate interests. We do not use your personal data for activities where our interests are overridden by the impact on you (unless we have your consent or are otherwise required or permitted to by law). You can obtain further information about how we assess our legitimate interests against any potential impact on you in respect of specific activities by contacting us. Performance of Contract means processing your data where it is necessary for the performance of a contract to which you are a party or to take steps at your request before entering into such a contract. Comply with a legal or regulatory obligation means processing your personal data where it is necessary for compliance with a legal or regulatory obligation that we are subject to. THIRD PARTIES Internal Third Parties Other companies associated with or internal to Pears Foundation. External Third Parties Service providers based in the UK or EEA who provide services on our behalf, including but not limited to contractors to complete emergency, responsive or planned work. Professional advisers including lawyers, bankers, auditors and insurers based in the UK or EEA who provide consultancy, banking, legal, insurance and accounting services. HM Revenue & Customs, regulators and other authorities based in the UK or EEA who require reporting of processing activities in certain circumstances. YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS You have the right to: Request access to your personal data (commonly known as a “data subject access request”). This enables you to receive a copy of the personal data we hold about you and to check that we are lawfully processing it. Request correction of the personal data that we hold about you. This enables you to have any incomplete or inaccurate data we hold about you corrected, though we may need to verify the accuracy of the new data you provide to us. Request erasure of your personal data. This enables you to ask us to delete or remove personal data where there is no good reason for us continuing to process it. You also have the right to ask us to delete or remove your personal data where you have successfully exercised your right to object to processing (see below), where we may have processed your information unlawfully or where we are required to erase your personal data to comply with local law. Note, however, that we may not always be able to comply with your request of erasure for specific legal reasons which will be notified to you, if applicable, at the time of your request. Object to processing of your personal data where we are relying on a legitimate interest (or those of a third party) and there is something about your particular situation which makes you want to object to processing on this ground as you feel it impacts on your fundamental rights and freedoms. You also have the right to object where we are processing your personal data for direct marketing purposes. In some cases, we may demonstrate that we have compelling legitimate grounds to process your information which override your rights and freedoms. Request restriction of processing of your personal data. This enables you to ask us to suspend the processing of your personal data in the following scenarios: (a) if you want us to establish the data’s accuracy; (b) where our use of the data is unlawful but you do not want us to erase it; (c) where you need us to hold the data even if we no longer require it as you need it to establish, exercise or defend legal claims; or (d) you have objected to our use of your data but we need to verify whether we have overriding legitimate grounds to use it. Request the transfer of your personal data to you or to a third party. We will provide to you, or a third party you have chosen, your personal data in a structured, commonly used, machine-readable format. Note that this right only applies to automated information which you initially provided consent for us to use or where we used the information to perform a contract with you. Withdraw consent at any time where we are relying on consent to process your personal data. However, this will not affect the lawfulness of any processing carried out before you withdraw your consent. If you withdraw your consent, we may not be able to provide certain products or services to you. We will advise you if this is the case at the time you withdraw your consent.