Supporting organisations to do what they do well Because we invest our emotion and interest in organisations we support, we build a real relationship, a proper, deep relationship that is forged over time around issues of mutual interest. Sir Trevor Pears CMG Pears Foundation is a family foundation driven by a desire to demonstrate the good that philanthropy can achieve in the world. We fund across a broad range of organisations and causes, building long-term partnerships based on trust, learning and flexibility. The Pears family has given more than £500m to charity since the Foundation was established. We are an invitation-only foundation. We draw on our experience, networks, landscape reviews and research to identify our partners. Core funding We give core funding – unrestricted grants or funding for essential costs such as staff posts – whenever appropriate because we trust our partners to make their own decisions about what is most needed and where the money should go. Long-term relationships We view our grantees as partners and we value the way our relationships evolve and deepen over time. More than money We offer professional development to our grantees with a particular focus on leadership and supporting the individuals who make up their teams. We also offer physical space and organisational development support. We believe that thoughtful and effective philanthropy is about creating spaces We believe that thoughtful and effective philanthropy is about creating spaces The Pears Pavilion at Coram provides a state-of-the-art space for the charity’s adoption support and creative therapies services. We give core funding whenever appropriate. We provide hot desks and meeting space for our partners at the Pears Hub. We offer a professional development programme for our UK grantees. The Pears #iWill Fund has supported over 30 NHS trusts to pilot and embed volunteering opportunities for young people. The UCL Centre for Holocaust Education has conducted groundbreaking research studies that underpin its teacher training programmes. The Linking Network helps schools and teachers to engage with and explore issues of identity and diversity. The Pears Scholarship Initiative provides skills and training to equip the next generation of public health leaders in Africa. Our philosophy is... Pears Foundation supports organisations that promote children’s social and emotional wellbeing and contribute to better understanding of the challenges that… Pears Foundation supports organisations that promote children’s social and emotional wellbeing and contribute to better understanding of the challenges that… Who am I? Who are we? Where do we live? How do we all live together? These are vital questions… Who am I? Who are we? Where do we live? How do we all live together? These are vital questions… Pears Foundation is committed to improving and sustaining wellbeing. We fund partners who provide support to families facing challenging circumstances,… Pears Foundation is committed to improving and sustaining wellbeing. We fund partners who provide support to families facing challenging circumstances,… The world is increasingly polarised and we need new skills to navigate this. We need to be able to disagree… The world is increasingly polarised and we need new skills to navigate this. We need to be able to disagree… The Scouts offer children and young adults an opportunity to enjoy exciting experiences, learn new skills and develop their team-working… The Scouts offer children and young adults an opportunity to enjoy exciting experiences, learn new skills and develop their team-working… Pears Foundation is a founding funder of First Give, an organisation that contributes to building a culture of giving in… Pears Foundation is a founding funder of First Give, an organisation that contributes to building a culture of giving in… Pears Foundation wants to play its part in building a shared society in Israel; one that offers equality, empowerment and… Pears Foundation wants to play its part in building a shared society in Israel; one that offers equality, empowerment and… Whether we are conscious of it or not, philanthropy permeates all our lives and shapes the world around us and… Whether we are conscious of it or not, philanthropy permeates all our lives and shapes the world around us and… Pears Foundation works with groups that face barriers to society, particularly those with special needs or a disability. We support… Pears Foundation works with groups that face barriers to society, particularly those with special needs or a disability. We support… Pears Foundation supports organisations that promote and enhance wellbeing, including for those coming to the end of their lives. It… Pears Foundation supports organisations that promote and enhance wellbeing, including for those coming to the end of their lives. It… Imperial War Museums tells the story of people who have lived, fought and died in conflicts involving Britain and the… Imperial War Museums tells the story of people who have lived, fought and died in conflicts involving Britain and the… Learning about the causes and consequences of the Holocaust is crucial to understanding the modern world and our place within… Learning about the causes and consequences of the Holocaust is crucial to understanding the modern world and our place within…