Pears Hub Welcome to the Pears Hub We hope it will be a place where you can enjoy working by yourself or with your team alongside others. We provide Wi-Fi, video conferencing facilities, a printer, tea, coffee, filtered water and snacks. There are two small meeting rooms and a large room that is suitable for away days, training, strategy planning or board meetings. The Pears Hub is conveniently located in West Hampstead, London with excellent transport links to the Jubilee Line, Overground and Thameslink. Full directions are available on our Contact us page . This space is available for use by all staff from Pears Foundation grantee organisations during the working day: Monday – Friday, 9 am – 5 pm. Please email us for all booking enquiries. We will send you a link to our online booking system and all the information you need about using the Hub. Once you are registered on the system and have read our documentation, you can book spaces whenever you need. If you’d like to come and see the space please feel free to email us and arrange a time. Please make sure you read any information sent before your booking, and ask in advance if you have any questions. If you need a reminder, you can find the full guide to using the Pears Hub here. A large, flexible space suitable for team meetings, board meetings, away days and larger events. It also has video conferencing facilities. Capacity depends on the layout required of the room. Boardroom (8-12) (we can extend this to 20 if you ask in advance) Cafe style (25-30) Lecture style (30-35) Rooms are perfect for shorter meetings for up to 3 people or for a private phone call or online meeting. These two rooms are on the smaller side so we do not advise spending an entire day in them. Workspace If you’d like some company during the working day, want a London base for a day or two, or just need some time in a different environment, come and try one of our hot desks. Single desks can be booked for a full day (9am-5pm) or a half day (9am-1pm or 1pm-5pm) We also have a ‘kitchen table style’ co-working space that can be used for both team and project working or as hot desks. The Pears Hub is an open plan space so if your work is likely to involve a lively discussion or interactivity, please book a meeting room instead. Guidelines for using the space The Pears Hub is only available for use at the Pears Foundation’s discretion, and only by organisations currently funded by the Foundation. Please read the full guidelines below before booking a meeting room or desk. Our hours are Monday to Friday 9am to 5pm. Please remember to factor set up/clear up timings into this timeframe. Please leave your hot desk or meeting room clear and as you found it at the end of the day so that it is ready for the next users. If you need a specific meeting room layout this will be your responsibility on the day and you will need to ensure the room is put back to the way in which it was found. Our kitchen is stocked with hot drink supplies for small and large meetings for you to set out on the day. For larger meetings and events in room 1 you will need to provide your own food, including snacks and soft drinks. We are not able to receive food deliveries for Hub users so you will need to ensure someone is there to take delivery. Please provide a full list of attendees to admin@pearsfoundation.org.uk at least 48hrs prior to your booking. Please ensure a named contact is provided for any booking enquiries. The Pears Hub meeting rooms cannot be booked for fundraising events or ‘paid for’ events (for example training courses with a fee).