About our Philanthropy Funding Approach Funding Programmes Church & Communities Older People & Housing Young People & Education Church & Communities Older People & Housing Young People & Education Insights & Learning Almshouses & Sheltered Housing Funding FAQs Grantee Accounts Philanthropy is the common thread that links our past, present and future. Like our historical benefactors, we believe in creating positive change so that everyone has the chance to lead a fulfilling life. Today, we coordinate our Philanthropy Framework, collaborating with the Charities of which we are a trustee, to help people facing disadvantage to reach their potential. Approximately £10 million is distributed each year across our programmes to charitable causes – focused on relieving disadvantage in London, Lincolnshire, Norfolk and the North East of England. We expect to support 180 individual charities annually to improve lives, strengthen organisations and contribute to societal change. Over the past six years we have awarded £64.2 million across our people-focused programmes and direct company giving. Our people-focused programmes are Young People & Education , Older People & Housing , Church & Communities and Heritage & Arts. We also provide high quality accommodation to over 200 residents in six almshouses , work closely with our Associated Schools & Colleges which educate c.18,000 pupils; appoint 88 charity trustees and school governors; and support churches in eight Church of England benefices, to which we are patrons. Creating positive change so that everyone has the chance to lead a fulfilling life. Approximately £10 million p.a. funded to support c.180 charities to: Improve people’s lives Strengthen organisations Contribute to societal change Funding organisations that advocate for disadvantaged people and communities: Greater London, Norfolk/Lincolnshire Northeast of England Funding Priorities: We fund community and faith-based organisations that: Build stronger communities (disadvantaged communities, support for refugees and homeless) Deliver better outcomes for families and carers Where we Fund: Greater London, Lincolnshire, Norfolk and the Northeast of England. Funding Priorities: We fund not for profit organisations that support older people faced with: Loneliness Poverty Where we Fund: London and Norfolk. Funding Priorities: Help young people achieve a good start in life, have strong mental health and feel supported through challenging transitions: Early Years, Literacy and Transitions from Secondary School Young people's Mental Health and Wellbeing Associated Schools & Colleges/ School Leadership Where we Fund: Greater London. Over the past seven years we have awarded £78.1* million (1 April 2018 - 31 March 2025) *969k awarded to other charitable organisations outside of main giving programmes Our funding data We believe in open data and transparency. We publish information on our grants, to provide details of who we fund, how much we funded and what the funding was for. We have published all our grants made since 2018, when we established a Philanthropy Framework. See our funding data here . We have also published grants awarded over £10,000 from 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2025, across our main funding programmes here . Answers to some of the most common queries. We are corporate trustee to nine charities. View our grants data and research findings.