About our Philanthropy Funding Programmes Insights & Learning Associated Schools & Colleges Funding FAQs Grantee Accounts We work with not-for-profit organisations in Greater London and focus on: Early Years, Literacy and Transitions from Secondary Education (Special Initiatives) Young people’s mental health and wellbeing We also work closely with our 16 Associated Schools and Colleges to support pastoral care - whole school, preventative approaches to support pupils’ mental health and wellbeing and support School Leadership initiatives which enable headteachers and governors at our Associated Schools & Colleges to be confident, inspiring and successful leaders. Rationale The Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated inequalities and negatively affected young people’s mental health and well-being, in addition to personal, social, emotional and academic development in the UK. These issues intersect to impact children already facing severe disadvantage with the situation set to worsen with the cost-of-living crisis, disproportionately affecting those already living in poverty. Special Initiatives We fund organisations with a track-record in supporting young people facing disadvantage in Greater London, piloting new approaches to a specific issue or to scale-up an existing approach, in line with our Young People and Education programme priorities. We work, typically for a three to four-year period, with charities and learning partners across our three strands Early Years, Literacy and Transitions from Secondary Education. Our aim is to increase sector knowledge through independent evaluation and by facilitating collaborative learning amongst our grantees. This approach not only allows our partners to evaluate their findings and adapt their delivery, but also increases our understanding of the sector and shapes future grantmaking. Supporting numeracy, literacy and language skills in the early years (2-5 years old). Early Years Special Initiative (2024-2028) - funding applications now closed. Developing literacy skills in young people to achieve higher attainment, improved life chances and agency. Literacy & Oracy Special Initiative (2024-2029) - funding applications now closed. Enabling young people to progress successfully from secondary education through a range of pathways that build on the skills, knowledge and key competencies valued by future employers. Funding applications now open, deadline 30 October 2025. School Leadership School leadership can have a substantial impact on the quality of education students receive. We support several initiatives which enable headteachers and governors to be confident, inspiring and successful leaders. Our current partners include: The Churchill Fellowship , Windsor Leadership , University of Winchester: Centre for Real World Learning and the Chartered College of Teaching . Young People’s Mental Health and Wellbeing In recent years there has been an increase in rates of mental health and wellbeing challenges among young people. Our Mental Health and Wellbeing programme aims to support mental health and wellbeing of young people through the following: Mental Health & Wellbeing (MHWB) Community Projects in Greater London, funded via Propel that support projects addressing systemic issues to achieve longer-term sustainable change, develop more equitable funding practices and encourage collaboration in London . Wellbeing Evaluation Programmes to support our Associated Schools and Colleges’ pastoral care - whole school, preventative approaches for pupils’ mental health and wellbeing. In 2023 we commissioned St Mary's University and Maudsley Learning Trust as our learning partner. They work with our Associated Schools and Colleges to support whole school, preventative approaches in their settings. They also work with our MHWB Community Projects to facilitate collaboration and pull together the findings from their projects. Associated Schools & Colleges The Company has links to a diverse group of 16 Associated Schools & Colleges , which the Company supports by: Facilitating collaborative learning between the Associated Schools & Colleges Supporting Heads and Governors to be effective leaders Appointing and nominating Governors to the Associated Schools & Colleges Supporting the wellbeing of students Providing a grant making programme that the schools can access for initiatives which align with our Young People & Education programme View our grants data and research findings. Answers to some of the most common queries. Find out more about our Associated Schools & Colleges.