Home About FAQ Contact Privacy Policy The Britford Bridge Trust is committed to protecting and respecting your privacy. This policy (together with our terms of use and any other documents referred to on it) sets out the basis on which any personal data we collect from you, or that you provide to us, will be processed by us. Please read the following carefully to understand our views and practices regarding your personal data and how we will treat it. For the purpose of the Data Protection Act 1998 (the Act), the data controller is The Britford Bridge Trust. Please note that this Privacy Policy applies only to our site https://thebritfordbridgetrust.org and not to any third party sites that are linked to from our sites. We may collect and process the following data about you: 1.1 Information that you provide by filling in forms on our sites. This includes information provided at the time of registering to use our sites, subscribing to our service, posting material or requesting further services. Such information may include (but is not limited to) your name, address, email address and phone number, financial and credit card information, personal description and photograph. We may also ask you for information, for example when you enter a competition or promotion, and when you report a problem with our sites. 1.2 If you contact us, we may keep a record of that correspondence. 1.3 We may also ask you to complete surveys that we use for research purposes, although you do not have to respond to them. 1.4 Details of transactions you carry out through our sites and of the fulfilment of your orders. 1.5 Details of your visits to our sites including, but not limited to, traffic data, location data, weblogs and other communication data, whether this is required for our own billing purposes or otherwise and the resources that you access. 1.6 Any information you provide to us in connection with your use of the forum. 1.7 Technical information, including the Internet protocol (IP) address used to connect your computer to the Internet, your login information, browser type and version, time zone setting, browser plug-in types and versions, operating system, platform and other relevant information. 2.1 We may collect information about your computer, including where available your IP address, operating system and browser type, for system administration and to report aggregate information to our advertisers. This is statistical data about our users’ browsing actions and patterns, and does not identify any individual. 2.2 A description of the cookies currently used on our sites can be accessed via this link Cookies. 2.3 For the same reason, we may obtain information about your general internet usage by using a cookie file which is stored on the hard drive of your computer. Cookies contain information that is transferred to your computer’s hard drive. They help us to improve our sites and to deliver a better and more personalised service. They enable us: 2.3.1 to estimate our audience size and usage pattern; 2.3.2 to store information about your preferences, and so allow us to customise our sites according to your individual interests; 2.3.3 to speed up your searches; and 2.3.4 to recognise you when you return to our sites. 2.4 You may refuse to accept cookies by activating the setting on your browser which allows you to refuse the setting of cookies. However, if you select this setting you may be unable to access certain parts of our sites. Unless you have adjusted your browser setting so that it will refuse cookies, our system will issue cookies when you log on to our sites. 2.5 Please note that where we feature online advertisements from advertisers out with the The MDS Estates Ltd its subsidiary and associated undertakings, they may use cookies over which we have no control. 3.1 The data that we collect from you may be transferred to, and stored at, a destination outside the European Economic Area (‘EEA’). It may also be processed by staff operating outside the EEA who work for us or for one of our suppliers. Such staff maybe engaged in, among other things, the fulfilment of your order, the processing of your payment details and the provision of support services. By submitting your personal data, you agree to this transfer, storing or processing. We will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this privacy policy. 3.2 Where we have given you (or where you have chosen) a password which enables you to access certain parts of our sites, you are responsible for keeping this password confidential. We ask you not to share a password with anyone. 3.3 Unfortunately, the transmission of information via the internet is not completely secure. Although we will do our best to protect your personal data, we cannot guarantee the security of your data transmitted to our sites; any transmission is at your own risk. Once we have received your information, we will use strict procedures and security features to try to prevent unauthorised access. 4.1We use information held about you in the following ways: 4.1.1 to ensure that content from our sites is presented in the most effective manner for you and for your computer; 4.1.2 to provide you with information, products or services that you request from us or which we feel may interest you, where you have consented to be contacted for such purposes; 4.1.3 to carry out our obligations arising from any contracts entered into between you and us; 4.1.4 to assist us with matters including (but not limited to) payment and marketing lists; 4.1.5 to administer our sites and for internal operations, including troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, research, statistical and survey purposes; 4.1.6 to allow you to participate in interactive features of our service, when you choose to do so; and 4.1.7 to notify you about changes to our service. 4.2 We may use your data to provide you with information about relevant goods and services and we will only contact you if you have given us explicit permission to do so. 4.3 We will not share your information with third parties out with the The MDS Estates Ltd its subsidiary and associated undertakings, except as set out in clause 5 below. 4.4 We will not disclose information about identifiable individuals to The Britford Bridge Trust’s partner businesses, but we may provide them with aggregate information about our users for profiling purposes. 5.1 We may disclose your personal information to third parties in the event that we sell or buy any business or assets, in which case we may disclose your personal data to the prospective seller or buyer of such business or assets. 5.2 If we are under a duty to disclose or share your personal data in order to comply with any legal obligation, or in order to enforce or apply our Terms of Use or relevant terms and conditions of supply of goods, services and/or information and other agreements; or to protect the rights, property, or safety of our employees, customers, or others. This includes exchanging information with other companies and organisations for the purposes of fraud protection and credit risk reduction. 6.1 You have the right to ask us not to process your personal data for marketing purposes. We will usually inform you (before collecting your data) if we intend to use your data for such purposes or if we intend to disclose your information to any third party for such purposes. You can exercise your right to prevent such processing by checking certain boxes on the forms we use to collect your data. You can also exercise the right at any time by contacting us at tracey.graham@brodies.com 6.2 Our sites may, from time to time, contain links to and from the websites of our partner networks, advertisers and affiliates. If you follow a link to any of these websites, please note that these websites have their own privacy policies and that we do not accept any responsibility or liability for these policies. Please check these policies before you submit any personal data to these websites. 6.3 If you have opted in or otherwise qualify to receive communication from The Britford Bridge Trust and no longer wish to receive our newsletter or other promotional communications by email, you may opt-out of receiving them by following the unsubscribe instructions included in each communication. Any changes we may make to our privacy policy in the future will be posted on this page and, where appropriate, notified to you by e-mail. Please check frequently for any updates or changes. Questions, comments and requests regarding this privacy policy are welcomed and should be addressed to tracey.graham@brodies.com. Visitors may opt out of our use of Analytics by visiting the Google Analytics Opt-out page. For more information, see our Privacy Policy. We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.