Home About FAQ Contact FAQs Applications are invited from UK registered charities for national or international projects. Regional consideration will only be given to projects in the Dorset and Cambridge areas. Frequently asked questions The Britford Bridge Trust is a charitable trust that donates funds to a number of UK registered organisations and charities primarily involved in the prevention or relief of poverty; the advancement of education; the advancement of health or the saving of lives; and the advancement of the arts, culture, heritage, or science. The Trustees will consider the amount requested in the context of the overall project and its aims and will consider the other sources of funding and the overall finances of the charity. In addition, applicants should be aware that decisions to award funding are also dependent upon the number and quality of similar competing applications. The majority of grants or donations are awarded to advance the primary purposes of the Trust. which are the prevention or relief of poverty; the advancement of education; the advancement of health or the saving of lives; and the advancement of the arts, culture, heritage, or science. Consideration will ONLY be given to UK registered charities with a national or international reach. Go to “Apply” and download our application form. This should be sent by email for the attention of Michelle Stevenson at thebritfordbridgetrust@brodies.com . You can apply throughout the year. Applications to the trust are reviewed quarterly. Quarterly cut offs are 30 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December each year. The Trustees personally review a short list of applications and the timing of this can vary according to commitments. We do no notify or give feedback to unsuccessful applicants. Due to the volume of applications received, the Trustees cannot respond to every application or give feedback as to why an application has not been successful. Applicants are advised that if they have not had a response within 6 months of applying, they should consider their application unsuccessful. If no funding has been granted after 2 applications then further applications are unlikely to succeed. If you have any additional questions please get in touch via email thebritfordbridgetrust@brodies.com About Us Contact We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.