About Us The Trustees are: Mrs Camilla Woodward Miss Kate Woodward Miss Olivia Woodward Mr Shaun Woodward Mr Tom Hunniwood The Woodward Charitable Trust is a grant-making trust. The Trust primarily funds charitable organisations in the UK. WCT grants funds to organisations that support disadvantaged families with young children up to age 11, and organisations that work directly with children of the same age group (0-11 years). This includes: Parenting / caregiving support Educational programmes for children both in and out of school, such as those that aim to boost attainment, attendance or emotional wellbeing Programmes and activities that benefit children’s wellbeing and development Pre-natal and post-natal support services The Trust also grants funds to organisations who run Play Schemes for children during the summer holidays, and to other charitable organisations on a discretionary basis. As the Trust’s resources are modest, the trustees prioritise funding small to medium-sized charities with an income of less than £200,000 (£100,000 for the summer playscheme grant) where smaller grants can have more impact. The Woodward Charitable Trust is one of the Sainsbury Family Charitable Trusts. The Trusts share a common administration but are otherwise independent of each other. The other Sainsbury Family Charitable Trusts, which are administered from the registered office, are: The Alan & Babette Sainsbury Charitable Fund The Aurora Trust (formerly The Ashden Trust) The Gatsby Charitable Foundation The Glass-House Trust The Headley Trust The Indigo Trust The Jerusalem Trust The JJ Charitable Trust The Kay Kendall Leukaemia Fund The Linbury Trust The Mark Leonard Trust The Monument Trust The Staples Trust The Tedworth Charitable Trust The Three Guineas Trust The True Colours Trust The Charity Registration number is 299963. The Woodward Charitable Trust is registered as a data controller with the UK Information Commissioner’s Office . Each trust is an independent legal entity with its own separate and autonomous board of trustees, actively led by an individual member of the Sainsbury family, and is registered as a data controller with the UK Information Commissioner’s Office .