Disclaimer The Woodward Charitable Trust has taken all reasonable care in the preparation of this website to ensure that the information contained herein is accurate. However, no warranty or representation is given that the information and materials contained herein are free from errors or inaccuracies. To the extent permitted by applicable laws The Woodward Charitable Trust accepts no liability for any direct, indirect or consequential damages however caused resulting from the access to and use of this website and the information contained on it. This exclusion of liability shall not apply to damages arising from death or personal injury caused by the negligence of The Woodward Charitable Trust or any of its employees or agents. The hypertext links in this site will lead to websites not under the control of The Woodward Charitable Trust and The Woodward Charitable Trust is not responsible for the contents of any linked site or any link contained in a linked site. The Woodward Charitable Trust is providing these links to you only as a convenience, the inclusion of any link does not imply endorsement by The Woodward Charitable Trust of the site, and The Woodward Charitable Trust accepts no liability in respect of the content of any such linked site. The copyright in the material contained in this Web Site and any Woodward trade marks and brands included in that material belongs to the Woodward Charitable Trust, unless otherwise stated. In such circumstances the Woodward Charitable Trust has obtained permission prior to the use of this material. All rights reserved. Documents published by the Woodward Charitable Trust on the world-wide web may not be copied other than for non-commercial individual reference with all copyright or other proprietary notices retained, and thereafter may not be recopied, reproduced or otherwise distributed. This disclaimer is governed by the laws of England. If any provisions of the foregoing is held to be unlawful, void or for any reason unenforceable, then that provision shall be deemed severable and shall not affect the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions. The Trustees do not make grants to individuals. © Woodward Charitable Trust 2015