Children’s Summer Play Schemes Guidelines Please read these guidelines in full and note all the requirements and exclusions even if you have received funding from us before. Time is valuable to us all and we would like you to avoid spending time on an application that will automatically be rejected if it doesn’t fit within our guidelines. Please note we only accept online application forms – the link to apply is only available under the ‘Application Form’ section when there is an open round. The Trustees review applications in May. Specific deadlines for applications are posted on the Diary page of this website. The 2025 round is now closed. Each year the Trustees of the Woodward Charitable Trust set aside funds for summer play schemes for children from disadvantaged backgrounds between the ages of 5-16 years. Trustees only fund programmes that run for a minimum of 2 weeks, 10 full days or 20 half days across the summer holidays. Grants can only be paid to registered charities, CICs, CIOs or exempt charities. If your organisation does not fall into one of these categories, please give the full name and address of a registered charity who has agreed to accept a grant on your behalf. Please note you will need to upload a copy of their most recent audited accounts at the end of the application form, if this is not available on the Charity Commission or Companies House. Please note that Trustees will only fund up to 50% of the total cost of a scheme . Most grants awarded are in the range of £500 to £1,000. Around 35 grants are made each year. Preference is given to: small local play schemes that provide a wide-ranging programme of activities. Trustees prioritise activities that are relatively inexpensive such as crafts and cooking, as well as outdoor activities and sport. schemes that involve a large number of children. schemes where past users are encouraged to come back and help as volunteers. Exclusions Trustees will not fund: trips that are only social such as to a theme park or cinema. Trustees prioritise funding for trips that are educational and motivational or relate to the natural environment such as to the seaside or countryside. charities whose annual turnover exceeds £100,000. overseas projects. Application Form The trustees receive many more applications than they are able to fund, so please make the most of the opportunity to tell us what makes your charity different and what your achievements are. When talking about your plans for this summer, please feel free to compare them to previous years and what the benefits of attending the scheme has meant to the families and the children attending. Please give details of what you plan to do, beyond just a list of activities, and note that we are looking for organisations that are making a real difference in their communities. Please let us know if any of your activities are child-led and who your volunteers are. Do you provide food and if so, what do you provide? Finance Information – We are interested in how much you hold as “free” or unrestricted reserves; which is that part of your funds free from any constraints as to their use. Please note the trustees are unlikely to fund any organisation with more than six months running costs in their unrestricted reserves. If you are carrying over a large amount of free reserves from the previous year, then please attach a note to your application explaining the reasoning behind this. If you would like a copy of your application please fill in and save the Word template linked at the top of the form webpage in advance of filling in the online form, as you will not receive a copy once you press submit. If you have accessibility needs which mean you cannot fill in the online form please call or email us. The application form is only made available on this page when there is an open grant round. The grant round for 2025 is now closed. Safeguarding and/or Child Protection Policy All application forms must be accompanied by your Safeguarding and/ or Child Protection Policy. All policies must include the full name of the appropriate contact at the organisation and their contact details. Your policy should be uploaded at the end of the application form. If we do not receive a copy of your policy, we cannot consider awarding a grant. Contact Please email contact@woodwardcharitabletrust.org.uk if you need further advice. Trustees are keen to spare charities the wasted time involved in applying when there is no prospect of success. If you do need to speak to us in person, please leave your details on the email and we will arrange to call you back.