Support our mission Partner with Purpose. Change Young Lives. Why Partner with LandAid? A partnership with LandAid delivers strategic value — not just social impact: Lead with credibility — Align with our industry-led mission backed by leading firms like Knight Frank, CBRE, Avison Young, and many more. Deliver measurable ESG impact — Fund projects that create real, reportable outcomes — s upporting young people into accommodation, training and employment. Engage your people — Strengthen internal culture through meaningful employee-led giving, skilled-volunteering, and fundraising. Take action and demonstrate real social impact – fund nationwide projects that work to end youth homelessness. A partnership with LandAid delivers strategic value — not just social impact: Lead with credibility — Align with our industry-led mission backed by leading firms like Knight Frank, CBRE, Avison Young, and many more. Deliver measurable ESG impact — Fund projects that create real, reportable outcomes — s upporting young people into accommodation, training and employment. Engage your people — Strengthen internal culture through meaningful employee-led giving, skilled-volunteering, and fundraising. Take action and demonstrate real social impact – fund nationwide projects that work to end youth homelessness. Ways to Partner There’s more than one way to make a difference. And with our 40th anniversary on the horizon for 2026, now is the ideal time to shape our milestone year. Whether you’re looking to energise your team, grow your industry profile, or drive long-term impact — we’ll help you find the right fit. Pro Bono and Skilled-Volunteering Put your team’s expertise to work for good — from project management and legal advice to architecture and design. Your skills can help the charities thrive. Employee Fundraising and Engagement Get your team involved and inspired! From office challenges to taking part in the LandAid SleepOut or Race for LandAid, we’ll help you raise vital funds while bringing your people together. Event Sponsorship and Campaigns Raise your profile while backing a cause that matters. Sponsor a LandAid event, or collaborate on a campaign that connects your brand with powerful stories and purpose. Let’s talk — your strategic partnership starts here. We’re ready to explore what impact could look like for your organisation. Contact our National Partnerships Team. You’ll Be in Great Company We’re proud to work with many organisations across the property and built environment industry — united by a shared commitment to end youth homelessness. Over £ 1.5 million of funding provided of funding provided 66 charity projects supported across the UK charity projects supported across the UK £ 1 million worth of Pro Bono support provided worth of Pro Bono support provided Over 1,400 young people supported young people supported Ready to create change together? We’re building something special for our 40th year — there’s no better time to join our network. Whether you're exploring ideas or ready to get started, we’d love to hear from you. Contact our friendly National Partnerships Team. Katie Stephenson Katie Stephenson katie.stephenson@landaid.org 07442905335 katie.stephenson@landaid.org 07442905335 Kieran Martin Kieran Martin kieran.martin@landaid.org kieran.martin@landaid.org Shelbie Walker Shelbie Walker shelbie.walker@landaird.org shelbie.walker@landaird.org