Support our mission Build to Rent Pathfinder In this section We know that many young people facing homelessness are in employment , education, or training, or are ready to do so , but despite this, many are unable to secure private tenancies due to their financial status or lack of permanent address . This means that the se young people often find themselves living in supported housing or hostels that they no longer need and are desperate to leave. By partnering with socially minded organisations willing to allocate a number of tenure-blind flats, LandAid aims to support more young people, across the UK, into independent living. The Pathfinder is a wholly collaborative partnership between LandAid, Build to Rent providers, and reputable frontline youth homelessness charities. (opens in a new window) (opens in a new window) (opens in a new window) (opens in a new window) Supporting the Pathfinder: What are the roles and responsibilities? Build to Rent (BTR) providers allocate units/flats within a development for an agreed period of time. LandAid connects BTR providers with frontline youth homelessness charities in the locality/region, who have young people ready to move-on to independent living. BTR providers partially subsidise the young tenants’ rent for an agreed period of time – this could be somewhere between 35%-50% depending on location and others factors, such as Local Housing Allowance rates. The overarching aim is to create access to subsidised, high quality move-on accommodation that will enable more young people to move-on in a sustainable, supportive, and empowering environment that is also affordable. Build to Rent (BTR) providers allocate units/flats within a development for an agreed period of time. LandAid connects BTR providers with frontline youth homelessness charities in the locality/region, who have young people ready to move-on to independent living. BTR providers partially subsidise the young tenants’ rent for an agreed period of time – this could be somewhere between 35%-50% depending on location and others factors, such as Local Housing Allowance rates. The overarching aim is to create access to subsidised, high quality move-on accommodation that will enable more young people to move-on in a sustainable, supportive, and empowering environment that is also affordable. Youth homelessness is rising, with thousands of 16-25 year olds facing dreadful uncertainty every year. This is your opportunity to create change, deliver the S in ESG and generate significant social impact and social value. With your collaboration we can enable more young people to move on in a sustainable, supportive, and empowering environment, that is also truly affordable. Following a successful pilot programme, which provided homes for young people in Build to Rent developments in Liverpool and Harrow, we are now seeking to expand this initiative and help more young people transition into independent living . A stepping stone to independence: Build to Rent in action The first young person to be supported by LandAid’s Build to Rent Pathfinder is Linh Le, who has moved into a beautiful fully furnished property at Baltic Yard in Liverpool City Centre. Sometimes young people simply need a helping hand – a route out of homelessness. The first young person to be supported by LandAid’s Build to Rent Pathfinder is Linh Le, who has moved into a beautiful fully furnished property at Baltic Yard in Liverpool City Centre. The Build to Rent sector is uniquely placed to play a part in tackling the youth homelessness crisis. “Last year, an estimated 136,000* young people approached their local council for housing support. Our industry has not only the tools, but the means to make a difference. In collaboration with LandAid and the innovative Build to Rent Pathfinder, we can help young people who are ready for independent living, through the provision and expansion of suitable accommodation”. Michael Brodtman, Non-Executive Director, Grainger plc and LandAid Patron “Last year, an estimated 136,000* young people approached their local council for housing support. Our industry has not only the tools, but the means to make a difference. In collaboration with LandAid and the innovative Build to Rent Pathfinder, we can help young people who are ready for independent living, through the provision and expansion of suitable accommodation”. Michael Brodtman, Non-Executive Director, Grainger plc and LandAid Patron Support the Build to Rent Pathfinder Partner with LandAid on this innovative initiative and play a part in tackling the urgent issue of youth homelessness. Our dedicated in-house BTR Task Force are on hand to provide support at every stage of the process. Contact: BTR@landaid.org to find out ways to get involved and support the Pathfinder. View further information on the Build to Rent Pathfinder here. * Data:Centrepoint