Support our mission Join our Pro Bono Programme In this section Many charities are under-resourced. Through the Pro Bono Programme, LandAid Partners use their skills and expertise to create measurable social value in communities across the UK. From property advice to marketing, legal, IT and more, this support is making a vital difference to young people nationwide. Taking part in LandAid’s Pro Bono Programme is a key benefit of being a LandAid Partner. Delivering pro bono projects requires time, expertise and resource. We liaise with charities about their needs, identify solutions, broker opportunities, provide support to both sides, and track the project impact. Financial contributions from our partners are essential for delivery, sustainability, and ensuring charities receive the very best support, helping to transform young lives. In return LandAid partners: Receive targeted and priority access to pro bono opportunities, Are invited to exclusive pro bono panels to help shape the programme, Receive support from the LandAid team to track impact and capture value for ESG reporting, Can create employee engagement, offering opportunities to build new skills, gain fresh perspectives, and experience the fulfilment of supporting inspirational charities, Gain the opportunity to network and connect with other like-minded, influential businesses across the property industry. Receive targeted and priority access to pro bono opportunities, Are invited to exclusive pro bono panels to help shape the programme, Receive support from the LandAid team to track impact and capture value for ESG reporting, Can create employee engagement, offering opportunities to build new skills, gain fresh perspectives, and experience the fulfilment of supporting inspirational charities, Gain the opportunity to network and connect with other like-minded, influential businesses across the property industry. Charities are in need of both specialist property advice and wider professional services, such as: Property search and agency assistance, Project development and management, Architectural and engineering advice, Fit out and decoration services, Investment and financial advice, Marketing and communications support, Legal services, IT support.