Apply for funding & support Routes Out of Homelessness Grant Programmes Grant Eligibility Criteria and FAQs In this section Organisational Information You must be a Charity, Community Interest Company (CIC), Charitable Incorporated Organisation (CIO) or other form of not-for-profit organisation. You need at least three unrelated members of your board of trustees. Your charity must work with young people aged 16-25 who are, or who are at risk of, or who have experienced homelessness. This does not have to be the exclusive focus of your organisation’s work. However, LandAid funding can only cover projects (or parts of projects) which specifically support this age-group Organisations can hold multiple grants from LandAid at any one time, but in general only one grant under each of the grant programmes at any one time. Project Information Any project we fund must take place in the UK . We do not retrospectively fund projects, or fund projects which are the duty of statutory funders, or projects that you could fund yourselves. We do not make unrestricted grants towards running costs We welcome partnership applications, with an identified lead partner who will hold the funding and monitoring duties associated with the grant Financial Information You must not have free reserves far in excess of your reserves policy without a valid reason. This would include reserves which you allocated for a certain purpose but are free to reallocate as needed. It does not include the value of fixed assets such as buildings. Additional documentation required Latest copy of your annual accounts and impact report The following policies: Safeguarding; Equality, diversity and inclusion Memorandum & Articles of Association Application Information When completing the form, please pay particular reference to the specific fund criteria as well as LandAid’s values, and how we apply these to our grant programmes. We are flexible and try to work with applicants to co-design projects which may not be an exact fit. If you have any questions you can get in touch with our team at grants@landaid.org We do sporadically run other grant programmes, so please sign up to our mailing list online if you haven’t done so already FAQ’s? We’d like to undertake a capital project, to buy, refurb or lease housing for young people but we don’t have the skills or expertise within our organisation. Can we still apply? Yes, we in fact we would encourage an application. We would suggest filling in an EOI (link) and include a request for free professional support via our pro-bono scheme here . We would generally start by brokering free professional support via our pro-bono scheme to equip your organisation with the knowledge and expertise needed to take on a capital project. We would then consider an eventual project proposal in line with our standard grant-making processes. Do you cover core organisational costs? All of our core grant programmes focus on projects which create bedspaces. Through our revenue grants, we would fund any management costs directly related to the delivery of the project. We do sometimes run other grant programmes, so sign up to our mailing list (link) to keep updated. Can we reapply if our application is not successful? Yes, we don’t have hard and fast rules on re-applying. However, if your application was not successful – the same project application is not likely to be successful within the next 12 months, unless there is a significant change to the local/regional situation and need. Is feedback provided on unsuccessful applications? We provide feedback on stage 2 applications which are not successful. Where possible we will provide brief feedback on EOI’s which are not progressed. However we can not always guarantee we will do so, it very much depends on the volume of applications we receive. Do you fund national charities? Yes we have funded national organisations which are able to deliver bedspaces around the UK. Do you fund faith-based organisations? Yes, as long as the organisation and the project meets our eligibility criteria. However any project would have to be specifically focused on bedspaces for young people and not for work in connection with the promotion of religion.