Apply for funding & support LandAid Pro Bono Programme and wider support In this section LandAid’s Pro Bono Programme connects property professionals with charities and non-profits who share our mission: to end youth homelessness. We match organisations with skilled experts across the built environment – from architects and planners to surveyors and engineers – providing free advice and services that would otherwise be out of reach. This support helps charities make the most of their spaces, budgets and capacity – and ultimately, reach more young people in need. We focus our pro bono offer on charities, non-profits and community organisations that directly support young people experiencing or at risk of homelessness – or whose work plays a meaningful role in preventing it. That includes organisations tackling poverty, supporting care leavers, providing youth services, or improving access to mental health and employability support. If this sounds like your organisation, we would love to hear from you. And, don’t forget to read our Top Tips to maximise the likelihood of your request being successfully matched with one or more of our corporate partners. charities.connected is Vodafone’s scheme to tackle digital exclusion through providing connectivity to communities of people who lack access to the digital world. LandAid is working to increase access to this resource for people experiencing homelessness, who can often find it difficult to acquire the resources, tools and finances required to keep them digitally connected. If your organisation works with individuals experiencing homelessness you can benefit from the scheme. Technology is a vital communication lifeline. For young people who are facing homelessness, this is a continuing battle. Without the means to afford a PC, laptop, or tablet, many young people are unable to apply for jobs, undertake life skills and employability training, speak directly to support workers or connect with loved ones. LandAid is working with Computers 4 Charity to re-furbish and re-home surplus tech from our property partners, donating this to charities supporting young people facing homelessness. Further information about professional sup port. What kind of free professional support can you ask for? Our large network of committed corporate partners are well placed to provide a broad range of both property-related and non-property support. Examples of the kinds of assistance that we have successfully brokered include: Property-related support Architectural / engineering advice Development management Property investment / financial advice Property search and agency Surveying services Non-property support Management consultancy Communications and marketing Legal advice HR support IT/tech support This list is far from exhaustive. If your request does not fall into one of the categories above, please do still submit it. Our large network of committed corporate partners are well placed to provide a broad range of both property-related and non-property support. Examples of the kinds of assistance that we have successfully brokered include: Property-related support Architectural / engineering advice Development management Property investment / financial advice Property search and agency Surveying services Non-property support Management consultancy Communications and marketing Legal advice HR support IT/tech support This list is far from exhaustive. If your request does not fall into one of the categories above, please do still submit it. How does the process work? To apply for free support, please complete this short form . The LandAid team will review your request and, if considered appropriate, share it with our corporate partners in an attempt to match you with an organisation who can assist. Our partners meet roughly every six weeks to consider requests, but if we know of someone particularly suited to your request we will try to match it directly. The matching process may take a little time but please rest assured that we are doing all we can to find you the best possible help. We will be in touch as soon as we can. Please do keep us informed if your needs change, or if you find help elsewhere. Once we have matched your request to a corporate partner, we will put you in direct contact with them in order to commence work. Both you and our corporate pro bono partners are asked to follow the attached Code of Practice throughout your time working together. We will monitor the progress of your project, and ask that you tell us when work is completed. We will ask both you and the provider of the free support partner to complete a very short post-completion evaluation survey. These surveys are vital to the continued success and improvement of LandAid’s free support brokering service. For further information about LandAid’s free support brokering service, or to discuss a potential request for assistance, please email probono@landaid.org We look forward to hearing from you! Pro Bono Association Membership LandAid is a proud member of the Pro Bono Association – a group of organisations working together to deliver free professional advice and services to charities and non-profits. LandAid is a proud member of the Pro Bono Association – a group of organisations working together to deliver free professional advice and services to charities and non-profits.