A healthy and thriving life for Londoners To enable organisations to improve the health of Londoners by tackling poverty and social isolation. About us London Catalyst’s vision is for Londoners to have a healthy and thriving life. We aim to achieve this by funding organisations and enabling them to tackle poverty and social isolation to improve the health of people living in London. Since 1873, when the organisation was founded, we have helped many Londoners and have changed many lives for the better. We continue to do so, but we can not do this alone. The needs are far greater and more complex and the demands from our beneficiaries are much higher. With your support, we can provide more and help Londoners thrive and lead a healthy life. Total funds awarded in last 5 years to 763 organisations Average project grant size Covering all London boroughs Our Grants We have recently reviewed our grants criteria and process. We currently run two grants programmes, our Main Grants Programme and Hardship Grants. Our Partners for Health Programme is currently paused for 2025. Our annual grants budget is between £300,000 and £350,000. Sign up to our newsletter London Living Wage Statement London Catalyst supports the London Living Wage, a London weighted minimum wage, which takes into account the higher living costs of London. The figure currently stands at £13.85 per hour; significantly above the National Minimum Wage. We would expect to see this rate of pay reflected in all charity budgets seeking support. For more information visit: www.livingwage.org.uk DEI Statement London Catalyst is committed to tackling social and economic inequalities. As an independent grant maker we are in a privileged position and have assets that we can deploy to realise this aim. We are committed to working with and learning from others. Our values should be clear in our actions and conduct. We strive to address social inequity, including racial injustice and discrimination, and be open to public scrutiny.