Home / Grant holders / How to claim How to claim This claim process is for grants awarded through our direct capital funding programmes for places. If you receive funding through one of our partnership programmes, you will normally claim in a different way. You can claim your grant in arrears once you have paid invoices for eligible costs that equal or exceed the value of the award. Even if the main project is not yet finished, you can still claim for the part of the project that we are funding. Your grant should be claimed in one instalment, unless the award is more than £500,000. If your award is over £500,000, you can claim it in equal instalments not exceeding £500,000 per individual claim. We make grant payments once a month, at the end of every month, except in August, when no payments are made. If you send us your claim documents by the 15th of the month, we will try to release your grant in the same month. While we try to be as accommodating as possible, payment is never guaranteed for a particular month. When you accept our offer of a grant, you will be asked to identify an appropriate claim date for the funding. These dates should be followed as far as possible but we understand that delivery timetables for capital projects can change. If you need to make a change to your agreed grant claim date, you can request this in your six month progress report or, outside of these times, by contacting your Programme Manager or Officer . The sections below explain what we need to release your award. Please read the guidance carefully and make sure you have included details and evidence for each in your email to us, as without this we will be unable to pay your grant. To claim your grant, please send us the following documents by email to grants@wolfson.org.uk : Your covering letter should: include your five-digit grant reference (given in your Letter of Award) confirm the amount being claimed confirm that the funds for the project or phase in your application are all pledged. If you are still fundraising, the letter should briefly state how you expect to secure the funds to make sure that the project will go ahead as set out in your application. confirm that work or equipment to the value of the grant was completed or ordered after the date on your Letter of Award explain how the invoices or bills attached relate to your original application and confirm that they have been paid. We appreciate that, particularly for major capital projects, the architects’ certificates/invoices may not specifically refer to the element of the project funded by us, so a simple explanation in the cover letter is helpful. acknowledge that if eligible expenditure does not meet or exceed the value of the grant, you relinquish the remaining amount. If you are submitting invoices totalling less than the value of the grant, you should state the amount that you are relinquishing. Copies of paid invoices or architect’s certificates that equal or exceed the value of the grant. We accept invoices for capital costs relating to your project (buildings, refurbishment and equipment) Our grants do not cover VAT, staffing costs, consumables, overheads and administrative costs. If you are unsure about which costs are eligible, please contact us before submitting your claim. The invoices or certificates must be dated later than the date on your Letter of Award and should refer to work carried out or equipment ordered after your award was offered. If the invoices are for equipment, you should confirm that delivery and installation of the equipment is complete. We are unable to release funds against quotations or purchase orders. If you are submitting more than 10 invoices, it helps us to process your claim more quickly if you include a separate list or spreadsheet summarising the invoices you have submitted. You can use this example template . If the documents are not in English, they should be certified in English by an independent auditor. Please attach a copy of a paying in slip or other bank document showing details of the bank account into which the grant is to be paid. This should include all of the following information: account name, account number, sort code, bank name and address. We can’t accept bank details provided in an email or other document, unless it is issued by your bank. The bank account should, unless we have agreed otherwise, belong to the organisation receiving the grant. The name, telephone number and email address of the person we should contact if we have a question about your claim. Wolfson History Prize Accessibility Cookie Policy EDI Privacy Policy Safeguarding Photo Credits Follow Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Foundation Registered Charity in England and Wales (charity no. 1156077). A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales (company no. 8927040) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Funding Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Grant holders Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity About What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications News Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy