Home / Funding / Funding for places Funding for places Our main grants programme provides support for places. These grants are for capital initiatives, i.e. buildings (new build or refurbishment) and equipment. We fund a broad range of organisations working across the fields of education, science & medicine, health & disability, heritage, humanities & the arts. Who can apply? Before you apply for funding , please check the types of places we fund and their specific funding criteria. You can also take our eligibility quiz to see if we could support your project. Charities working with disability funding Charities working in mental health funding Charities working with older people funding Historic buildings & landscapes funding Hospices & palliative care organisations funding Places of worship funding Libraries & archives funding Museums & galleries funding Performing arts organisations funding Public engagement with science organisations funding Secondary schools & sixth form colleges funding Special needs schools & colleges funding Universities & research institutions funding Get in touch with us Get in touch with us if you’d like to check if your organisation is eligible for funding. Wolfson History Prize Accessibility Cookie Policy EDI Privacy Policy Safeguarding Photo Credits Follow Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Foundation Registered Charity in England and Wales (charity no. 1156077). A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales (company no. 8927040) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Funding Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Grant holders Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity About What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications News Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy