Home / Funding / Funding FAQs Funding FAQs Frequently asked questions (FAQs) about our funding. Most of our funding is for capital infrastructure, which means for buildings (new build or refurbishment) and equipment. We only award grants to charities or organisations with charitable status or equivalent. You can find more details on eligibility criteria within the relevant category on the Funding for Places page. Although we do fund scholarships and fellowships, you cannot apply for these directly to us. C heck how to apply through our partner organisations on the Funding for People page. Our grants cannot cover certain costs, such as VAT or purchasing land or property. We do not fund feasibility studies, or projects where the total cost is below £15,000. Within each programme area, there may be other specific things we don’t fund. Check the ‘What we don’t fund’ dropdown menu within the relevant category under Funding for Places . Funding from the Wolfson Foundation demonstrates that the applicant has reached a certain level of excellence. It is a gold standard as well as a grant. We define excellence differently for each of our programme areas. For example, a university could demonstrate excellence through the international competitiveness of their research. A charity providing facilities for people with disabilities could show excellence by explaining how it delivers real benefits to the people it supports and by demonstrating a high level of professionalism. No, unfortunately not. We only fund charities or organisations with charitable status (or equivalent). Over 95% of our funding is within the UK, and we welcome applications from all parts of the UK. Our emphasis is on excellence, not on any particular part of the UK. We run a small number of proactive programmes outside the UK, but these are not open to applications. Yes, charities based in the Channel Islands or Isle of Man can apply. We prefer that you do not request a specific amount. In a Stage 1 application, we simply want to know the total cost of your project and the amount you still need to raise towards it. In a Stage 2 application, you will be asked to provide a breakdown of costs for each element or stage of your project. The size of our grants varies greatly across different categories. You can check the usual grant range in the ‘Need to know section’ under the relevant category under Funding for Places for an idea of how much you could receive. You may also like to look at our list of recent awards to see the amounts that similar organisations and projects have received. In most cases, you should have match funding in place by the time you submit a Stage 2 application. If the total cost of the project is under £50,000 match funding is not required. Match funding may include funds committed by your organisation, funds already received, as well as confirmed pledges. In the case of National Lottery Heritage Fund, we generally accept a stage 1 pass as match funding Match funding may include any capital costs, including VAT, related to the project. It should not include non-capital costs such as staff costs or other core funding costs. Please see the ‘How to apply’ section under each category on the Funding for Places page. Once you have checked that your project is eligible, you can submit a Stage 1 application via our online application system . To help you submit your application, we have put together information on using our online application system . This covers questions including creating an account, linking your organisation, and completing the application form. We have two funding rounds each year for most of our programmes. You can find out the deadlines and timing of applications in the ‘When to apply’ section on the page for your specific funding category. We have a rigorous assessment process and carefully consider all applications. This means that it takes at least five months between submitting your Stage 1 application and hearing whether your Stage 2 application has been successful. We advise that you submit a Stage 1 application as soon as you have details of your project’s costs and timetable. Check the types of places we fund on the Funding for Places page. Select the relevant place for more information on eligibility. If you are looking for funding for yourself, please visit our Funding for People page. Our grants and scholarships for individuals are managed by our partners and we do not accept direct applications for these programmes. Meetings and site visits are not a formal part of our review process. As we are a small staff team, it is not possible or necessary for us to meet most applicants. We usually only hold meetings with applicants or potential applicants when we need to discuss a specific issue. We are always very happy for you to phone us if you need advice. Once we have awarded a grant, our staff or trustees may visit your project as part of ongoing monitoring. Due to the number of applications that we receive, we can’t formally provide comments on draft applications. We are happy to answer any questions you have over the phone. When you call, please let us know the category under which you want to apply, so we can direct questions to the relevant Programme Manager . Please submit your Stage 1 application online . If you need to attach a cover letter from the Chief Executive (or equivalent) of your organisation, you should address this to our Chief Executive, Paul Ramsbottom. It is usually more convenient for you and us to submit your Stage 1 application online. If you cannot apply online, please contact us and we will make reasonable adjustments for you to apply in another format. Before completing a paper application, please read the advice in the relevant category on the Funding for Places page. You will also need to send audited accounts for the past two years. We receive hundreds of applications each year and unfortunately, we can’t provide detailed feedback on every Stage 1 application. We provide detailed feedback if your Stage 2 application is unsuccessful. We are committed to careful review and have a rigorous assessment process. This includes a review of your organisation’s finances, as well as expert assessment by external reviewers and our expert panels . Although our review process is rigorous, we want our application process to be as ‘light touch’ as possible, so we only ask for relevant information that will help us assess your project. You don’t need to nominate a reviewer for a Stage 1 application. At Stage 2, all applicants can nominate an independent reviewer. This should be someone who is independent of your organisation and not retained by them, such as the project architect. You may want to nominate a reviewer who can provide a helpful perspective on the project and its merits, either as someone from within your sector or discipline or who knows the local area where you operate. You don’t have to nominate a reviewer, and your Stage 2 application will not be disadvantaged if you choose not to, as we send all applications to our own carefully selected independent reviewers. We believe that continued investment in and maintenance of infrastructure is vital for organisations across the sectors that we fund. We understand the pressures on capital funding and that there are few funders who provide significant funding towards large-scale capital projects. We also run targeted programmes providing funding for people through our partner organisations. No, we will consider organisations that have a secure, long-term lease on a building. Generally, there should be at least 15 years to run on the lease at the time the application is made (assuming the project is for major refurbishment work). Yes, delivery costs are eligible. We fund within carefully defined areas. To ensure your project is eligible, and to make the best use of your time and the time of our staff, we ask for a Stage 1 application with brief information. This means we can make sure that all organisations invited to submit more detailed Stage 2 applications are eligible for funding. Although funding is not guaranteed, a large proportion of Stage 2 applicants do receive funding. Science & Medicine, Health & Disability and Heritage, Humanities & the Arts : Please submit your Stage 2 application via the online application form. You can find information to help you with your Stage 2 application on our Application Guidance page. There is no form or template for Stage 2 applications under these programme areas. This allows you to present your application in a way that reflects your organisation and brings your project to life. It also helps us to better understand your organisation and project more than an online form. Please read our Stage 2 application guidelines for more details on the content and format of your application. Yes, we are happy to provide feedback on unsuccessful Stage 2 applications. We generally do this over the phone. We ask that you wait five years between the date an award is offered (not paid) and submitting another application. We do not consider applications for a project that we have already supported, so your future application would need to be for a different project. Universities can apply more frequently if applications are for projects in different departments. Wolfson History Prize Accessibility Cookie Policy EDI Privacy Policy Safeguarding Photo Credits Follow Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Foundation Registered Charity in England and Wales (charity no. 1156077). A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales (company no. 8927040) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Funding Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Grant holders Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity About What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications News Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy