Home / Funding / Application guidance Application guidance We have a two-stage application process, with the exception of our secondary education programme. The Stage 1 application is designed to be short and easy to complete and you can submit this online. If this application is successful, we ask for a more detailed Stage 2 application. To help you with your application, see our Funding FAQs and using our online application system . Stage 1 applications Please read our apply for funding section, the eligibility criteria for your programme and the Funding FAQs before starting your application . Read the questions we ask in the Stage 1 application . Stage 2 applications Stage 2 applications are by invitation only. There are different requirements and deadlines for different programmes. Your invitation email will explain which programme to apply for and the contact details for your Programme Manager. Your invitation to apply will specify any requirement for match funding to be in place. Match funding may include funds raised towards elements of the capital project that are not eligible for Wolfson funding (e.g. VAT). Match funding should not be for funds raised towards staff costs or core funding. Any necessary planning permission should also be in place, unless we have agreed otherwise. If you have not yet received formal planning permission but you think it may be granted soon, please contact your Programme Manager for advice. Stage 2 applications are by invitation only. You can submit your Stage 2 application via our online system. Make sure you include the information we ask for in the Stage 2 Application Guidelines below. Stage 2 Application Guidelines – Heritage, Humanities & the Arts (PDF) Stage 2 Application Guidelines – Science & Medicine (PDF) Stage 2 Application Guidelines – Health & Disability (PDF) An example of how to present your project’s financial information: Example of Finances (PDF) We run two funding rounds each year. The key dates are: Round 1: Stage 2 application deadline: 1 March, Funding decision: June Round 2: Stage 2 application deadline: 1 September, Funding decision: December We do not make grants retrospectively so your project must not have been completed at the time that a funding decision is made (i.e. June or December). Unless otherwise agreed, your invitation to submit a Stage 2 application will stay open for three funding rounds. If your Stage 1 application is successful, your invitation will state the latest round in which you can submit a Stage 2 application. Review and assessment process We send Stage 2 applications to expert external reviewers. You will have the opportunity to respond to any questions they raise. Find out more about our application review process . Our expert panels then consider all applications, before making recommendations to our trustees . In 2025, we are trialling a one-stage application process for our secondary education programme. Please see the secondary schools and sixth form colleges funding page for further information. This information does not apply to special schools , which should follow the guidance for the Health & Disability programme provided in the section above. Wolfson History Prize Accessibility Cookie Policy EDI Privacy Policy Safeguarding Photo Credits Follow Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Foundation Registered Charity in England and Wales (charity no. 1156077). A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales (company no. 8927040) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Funding Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Grant holders Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity About What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications News Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy