Home / Grant holders Information for grant holders Congratulations on being awarded a grant from the Wolfson Foundation. We want claiming a grant and reporting on progress to be as straightforward as possible for our grant holders. These pages outline how we will work with you if you are awarded a grant through our main capital funding programmes. If your organisation has been awarded non-capital funding or funding through one of our partnership programmes, you may have different requirements. Letter of award If you are awarded a grant, we will send you a Letter of Award which explains your grant offer and any conditions associated with it. We will also send you our Grant Conditions leaflet and an award acceptance letter. Please sign the award acceptance letter and return it to us as soon as you can. Claiming your grant You should claim your grant within the time period set out in your Letter of Award. Grants which are not claimed within the agreed timeframe may be withdrawn, unless we have agreed an extension. You can claim your grant once the part of the project that we are funding has been carried out, even if the overall project is not yet finished. Find out how to claim your grant . Reporting As a condition of our grants, we ask for short progress reports every six months until your grant is fully claimed. This helps us to understand how the project that we have funded is progressing. The deadlines for progress reports are 30 April and 31 October each year until you have claimed all your grant. If you have claimed your grant but the overall project is ongoing, we ask for brief updates when you reach key milestones. We also ask for a final report no later than one year after your project is completed. Read more about reporting . Communications and publicity We are happy for you to acknowledge our funding for your project. Find out more about acknowledging your grant in communications and publicity . Wolfson History Prize Accessibility Cookie Policy EDI Privacy Policy Safeguarding Photo Credits Follow Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Foundation Registered Charity in England and Wales (charity no. 1156077). A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales (company no. 8927040) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Funding Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Grant holders Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity About What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications News Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy