Home / Funding / Application guidance / Using our online application system Using our online application system We have recently moved to a new online application system. We have put together the below information to help you use our application system and support you in submitting your application and grant holder progress reports. Creating your account On our start your application webpage, select the funding programme you want to apply to. Blackbaud’s applicant portal login screen has a button at the bottom right, ‘create account’. You can create an account with your email address, Apple, Google, or Single Sign On. If you are a grant holder submitting a progress report, follow the steps above using this link . In May 2025 we moved to a new online application system, provided by Blackbaud. If you have a Blackbaud login from using another Blackbaud product or applying for other grants, you do not need to create a new account. Please note that Blackbaud’s system is also referred to as ‘ GrantsConnect ’ and ‘ Your Cause ’. If you applied to us before May 2025 and don’t have a Blackboard login already, you will need to create a new account. Other funders use the same application system as us, meaning you can use the portal to access applications and reporting for multiple funders. You can reset your password online. If you normally sign in via email (‘continue with email’), enter your email address and select ‘continue’. The next screen includes a ‘Forgot password’ option. Check your inbox for a reset password email, and follow the instructions to reset your password. If you don’t receive the reset password email, check your Junk folder. If you normally sign in via Apple or Google, change your password through Apple or Google. If you normally sign in via single sign on, contact your IT admin to change your password. Selecting your organisation Try searching for your organisation using your charity number or school identity number (e.g. URN), which may help. If you can’t find your organisation through the ‘Select your organisation’ search function, you can add your organisation manually using the ‘Add organisation’ function at the bottom left of the page. Please leave the government tax ID number field blank. You will then be prompted to add your organisation’s details, including name, address and logo (optional). This is an optional field so please leave it blank. The application system was designed in the US, so there are some sections that are not relevant for our needs. Please ignore this message and continue with your application, as the message does not relate to our funding programmes. Working with colleagues Yes, you can invite colleagues to review and edit application and progress report forms using the ‘manage applicants’ link at the top right of the form. From here you can also change the permissions settings for each contact. Your colleague will receive an email from noreply@yourcause.com titled ‘Invitation to GrantsConnect’. We recommend adding this email address to both of your safe senders lists. Your colleague will need to create an account to view or edit the application / progress report. You can also download a PDF of the form using the ‘download’ button. Go to ‘manage applicants’ and add your colleague’s details. Your colleague will receive an email from noreply@yourcause.com titled ‘Invitation to GrantsConnect’. We recommend they add this email address to their safe senders list. Your colleague will then need to create an account to view and continue with the application or progress report. You should also adjust the permissions and settings so that your colleague is the new owner of the application or progress report. Filling in the application form You might have an error message saying ‘this field is required’ or ‘there is an error on this field’. This message appears when a field is blank, or a response is over the word count, or more than one answer is selected. Check the question guidance for more information on what is needed. For some of our application forms, the shortfall is calculated automatically by taking the total project cost minus the funds raised. It is not possible to edit this box. If the number is incorrect, please explain this in the box below and give the correct number. Submitting your application You should receive an email from noreply@yourcause.com to confirm your submission. Your application status will say ‘Awaiting review’ or ‘In progress’. Any application that is labelled as ‘Draft’ has not been submitted. Yes, you can still access your application on the online system. You won’t be able to submit a draft application if applications for that programme have closed. Help with your application form or progress report Please contact us at grants@wolfson.org.uk and let us know, in as much detail as possible, the issues you are experiencing. If you are a grant holder submitting a progress report , you can also find more information on our reporting webpage. Wolfson History Prize Accessibility Cookie Policy EDI Privacy Policy Safeguarding Photo Credits Follow Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Foundation Registered Charity in England and Wales (charity no. 1156077). A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales (company no. 8927040) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Funding Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Grant holders Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity About What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications News Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy