Home / Funding Apply for funding We have a wide range of funding programmes and activities. Our fundamental aim is to improve the civic health of society, mainly through education and research. More specifically, we support excellence in the fields of education, science & medicine, health & disability, and heritage, humanities & the arts. Our programmes can be grouped into funding for places (capital funding) and funding for people . Funding for places About 85% of our funding is for capital infrastructure – buildings (new build or refurbishments) and equipment. These awards support excellence across education, science & medicine, heritage, humanities & the arts and health & disability. Apply for funding for places Funding for people A smaller proportion of our funding (about 15%) is for people, through scholarships or fellowships. We do not accept unsolicited applications under these programmes. We generally work with partner organisations who identify individuals for support. More on funding for people If you have checked you are eligible and understand the application process and timescale, you can start your application Start your application Apply for funding If you have already started your application, log in to return to it Applicant login Continue an application Need help with your application? See our Funding FAQs and using our online application system . If you still need help, please email grants@wolfson.org.uk Wolfson History Prize Accessibility Cookie Policy EDI Privacy Policy Safeguarding Photo Credits Follow Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Foundation Registered Charity in England and Wales (charity no. 1156077). A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales (company no. 8927040) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Funding Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Grant holders Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity About What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications News Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy