Home / Grant holders / Press & publicity How to acknowledge our grants in press & publicity We are happy to be acknowledged in press, publicity and communications materials about your project. Acknowledging support While our funding is not driven by naming opportunities, we would like our support to be acknowledged. We ask that grants made by us or through partnership programmes be acknowledged in publicity, displays and documentation related to the project, such as: Donor boards Wall panels Marketing materials Annual reports Hoardings Our preference is to be listed as ‘Wolfson Foundation’. Logos You may use our logo in communications about work we are directly supporting, but please check with us first. The Wolfson logo should be used in conjunction with our brand guidelines. Download our logos (Compressed ZIP) (downloads a file) Download our brand guidelines (PDF) (downloads a document) Websites We ask that acknowledgement of our support on websites includes our logo and a link to our website. Named areas We occasionally ask that an area is named after us. You should not use our name for named areas or aspects of a project without our prior agreement. Where a named area has been agreed, we will ask to formally approve the draft signage. Press releases and announcements If you would like to acknowledge our funding a press release or other media activity, please contact us . As a condition of our grants, we ask to approve all press releases and announcements that mention us by name before they go out. We are happy to provide quotes for press releases where appropriate. The standard text about us for the ‘Notes to editors’ on press releases is: The Wolfson Foundation is an independent grant-making charity with a focus on research and education. Its aim is to contribute to civil society by supporting high-quality projects in science, health, heritage, humanities and the arts. Since it was established in 1955, the Wolfson Foundation has awarded over £1 billion (£2 billion in real terms) to around 14,000 projects throughout the UK, all on the basis of expert review. X: @wolfsonfdn | LinkedIn: Wolfson Foundation Media enquiries For general media enquiries, please email us . Photos of projects that we support We keep a library of photos from the organisations we support to use on our website and on social media. We love to see pictures of the projects we fund. These might be photos that you already have in your library, or ones that you are taking to celebrate your new project. We are interested to see pictures which tell the story of your project, show people interacting with each other or using the facilities or equipment. You can email your photos to us. Please ensure that you have consent from the people in the photo before sending them to us. Please also include credit information and whether you are happy for us to use the photos on our website and/or social media. Questions about acknowledging our support Please contact us if you have a question about acknowledging our support for your project in communications. Wolfson History Prize Accessibility Cookie Policy EDI Privacy Policy Safeguarding Photo Credits Follow Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Foundation Registered Charity in England and Wales (charity no. 1156077). A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales (company no. 8927040) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Funding Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Grant holders Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity About What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications News Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy