Home / Funding / Funding for people Funding for people Our funding for people provides research and education grants through scholarships, and fellowships. These grants are generally administered by our partner organisations, who are better placed to select outstanding recipients. We do not accept applications for grants to individuals directly. Visit our partner organisations’ web pages to check whether you are eligible to apply. Students Scholarships for outstanding secondary school-age musicians in junior departments and funding for undergraduates to purchase instruments at nine musical conservatoires across the UK. Students are nominated by the conservatoire. You can also apply under this programme for funding to purchase instruments. View participating conservatoires Funding administered by the Royal College of Physicians for outstanding undergraduate students at selected medical schools who are likely to pursue a medical research career. These awards enable students to take a one-year academic course part-way through their medical degree. Apply through your university. Make an enquiry to the Royal College of Physicians (opens a draft email with recipient populated) Scholarships for PhD students in the broad areas of history, literature and languages at six partner universities. Students are selected by their university . Enquiries about applying should be directed to the relevant participating university. View participating universities Academic researchers In partnership with the British Academy, we award a small number of professorships to established and outstanding academics in the humanities. This allows researchers to focus on a specific research programme while freed from teaching and administrative commitments. Communicating the research to a wide audience is a requirement of the professorship. Learn more via the British Academy website In partnership with the British Academy, we award a small number of fellowships to early career researchers in the humanities who show exceptional talent in both research and public engagement. The award enables early career researchers to undertake a specific research project over three years with funding divided between time buy-out, research and travel expenses, and dissemination of findings. The British Academy are commissioning an external evaluation of this scheme to inform future funding in this area. While this work is being undertaken, they will not be accepting new applications for British Academy/Wolfson Fellowships. Learn more via the British Academy website Five-year flexible funding supporting universities and research institutions to recruit outstanding scientific researchers. The scheme covers all areas of the life and physical sciences, including engineering, but excluding clinical medicine. This programme is jointly funded by the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology and administered by the Royal Society. Learn more via the Royal Society website Funding to support The Council for At-Risk Academics (Cara) Fellowships Programme, which provides opportunities at UK universities for early and mid-career researchers fleeing persecution or danger in other parts of the world. Learn more via the Cara website Workplace Employees Grants for professional training for medical staff working in palliative care. These include, but are not limited to, adult and children’s hospice staff. Learn more and apply via the Hospice UK website Wolfson History Prize Accessibility Cookie Policy EDI Privacy Policy Safeguarding Photo Credits Follow Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Foundation Registered Charity in England and Wales (charity no. 1156077). A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales (company no. 8927040) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Funding Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Grant holders Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity About What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications News Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy