Home / Funding / Application guidance / Review process Review process We have a careful review process to make sure that we are supporting high quality projects​. Independent reviewers Stage 2 applications are assessed by independent expert (or ‘peer’) review. While peer review is most associated with academic research, we use independent reviewers across all our programmes. They are selected as experts in their field who can provide an informed and impartial review. This process is central to our decision-making, and we are very grateful to all our reviewers. The identity of our independent expert reviewers is kept confidential. If reviewers have questions or concerns, we will pass these on to you, and you will have the chance to respond. Read our guidance for reviewers . Nominated reviewers You can nominate a reviewer, who should be someone who is familiar with the organisation and project but who can provide an independent reference. Expert Panel and assessment criteria Our expert panels consider applications, reviewers’ comments and any response from applicants to queries raised. The panel then make recommendations to our trustees. Trustees assess applications using criteria including the excellence of the organisation and project, the anticipated outcome of the project, and financial viability, including value for money and provision for ongoing costs or maintenance. Wolfson History Prize Accessibility Cookie Policy EDI Privacy Policy Safeguarding Photo Credits Follow Copyright © 2025 The Wolfson Foundation Registered Charity in England and Wales (charity no. 1156077). A company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales (company no. 8927040) Feelingpeaky web design We are using cookies on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Funding Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Apply for funding Funding for places Funding for people Funding for places Funding for people What we’ve funded Application guidance Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Review process Stage 1 application questions Using our online application system Case studies Eligibility quiz Funding FAQs Grant holders Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity Grant holder information Grant holder FAQs Reporting How to claim Press & publicity About What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications What we do Strategy Staff Trustees Panel & committee membership Investments History Publications News Contact us Privacy overview Cookie notice Analytics Cookie policy This website uses cookies. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping us to understand which sections of the website you find most useful and interesting. You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side. The Cookie notice is used in order to save your preferences for cookie settings and whether or not to continue showing you the cookie notice. This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website for our visitors. The majority of websites you visit will use some form of cookies in order to improve your user experience. This might be for the duration of your visit (by using what’s called a ‘session cookie’) or for repeat visits (by using a ‘persistent cookie’). Cookies are little bits of code that are placed on your computer. Find out more about our Cookies policy