FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Can we still apply to The Foyle Foundation? No, we are permanently closed for new applications across all schemes. Applications that have already been submitted will continue to be assessed as usual and you will receive a decision within four months, occasionally longer, from your request date. Will this announcement affect existing grant recipients? All existing approved grants and payments are scheduled to be paid out and the projects completed before the closure of the grant giving programme. If you have any questions regarding your specific grant award, please do not hesitate to contact your dedicated Grant Assessor (name and contact details provided with your offer email). What happens if our funded project is delayed? You will need to be able to fully spend the funds awarded and report on the use of the grant before the end of December 2025. Please speak to your dedicated Grant Assessor (name and contact details provided with your offer email) to discuss your specific circumstances if you have any concerns. What is the source of the Foundation’s funds? The Foyle Foundation was set up to implement the will of the late Christina Foyle (married name Batty) who died in 1999 leaving most of her estate to charity. In 2000, the Executors decided to set up a grant making Foundation to disburse the charitable funds in a strategic way. How much was its original endowment? Approximately £60M. The assets were mainly property holdings, some stock market investments and a holding in her father’s library which was sold. How many organisations have you supported? The Foundation has awarded over £163M in grants (as at end of 2024), supporting over 7,000 charities and schools across the U.K. Information on our recent grant making can be found on the Past Grants page and on 360Giving . Why are you concluding your grant giving programme now? The Foundation was established in 2000 with unrestricted charitable objectives and no request or need to maintain a permanent endowment. The Trustees decided to spend down its funds over 25 years, enabling more charitable causes to receive more support, more quickly, than would have been possible if the Foundation had maintained a permanent endowment. Where else can we apply for funding from? Although we are unable to advise on other grantmaking charities you can apply to, as priorities and eligibility guidelines are continuously updating, here are a couple of resources you may be able to use to research different potential fundraising avenues: 360Giving Get Grants Grant Finder Directory of Social Change What happens when our application is approved? You and the secondary contact will receive an Approval Letter and Terms & Conditions (as well as a Grant Information Sheet). You will need to carefully read through these and then log onto your online account to submit the Terms & Conditions. At various points during the life of your grant, we will request information via your online account (you will receive emails to alert you when information is required). What will we need to provide before our payment is made (pre-payment requirements)? All applicants will need to provide their Terms & Conditions and Banking Details. There may be some additional requirements that we need to obtain before we can schedule your payment (these will always be listed within your Terms & Conditions). Once all of these pre-payment requirements are been received satisfactorily, we will add a final ‘Pre-Payment Confirmation of Banking Details’ requirement (to confirm the banking details previously submitted) which will need to be submitted before your payment can be released. An email with the banking details will be sent to both the primary and secondary contact. All of the above needs to be received around two weeks before the scheduled payment date, in order to make that payment run. How and when will we receive our payment? We make payments online. Your provisional payment date will be listed in your Terms & Conditions (however this is subject to change, especially for pledged grant offers). The majority of payments will be made within two months of the approval date. If the provisional payment date is further in the future, this will usually be because of a later project start date. Payment runs usually occur at the end of the month, but we need to have everything we need to schedule your payment around two weeks before this payment date. Once a payment has been made, we will send you an email to let you and the secondary contact know when the payment has been released. This email will ask you to log onto your account to submit a Payment Receipt. What will we need to provide after our payment is made (post-payment requirements)? Post-payment requirements will be listed within your Terms & Conditions. What we will require depends on the scheme and grant size. We try to keep our requirements proportional to the type and size of grant. What happens once we have provided everything in relation to our grant? We will send you an email to let you know once we have received everything we need in relation to your grant. At this point, you can check scheme guidelines for details on when you can reapply, however please note that recent funding is taken into consideration, so even when you are eligible to reapply, you may not be a high priority after recent funding. How can we create a new account? Here is the link to create a new account . which will open a ‘New Applicant?’ webpage. Type in your email address, and confirm it (they must match in order to proceed). Please take extra care to ensure you type your email address correctly, as if you type an incorrect email address, as long as they are the same both times, an account will be created under an incorrect email. Type in a password which contains at least 12 characters (with at least three of the following character types: lower case, upper case, number, special), and confirm it (they must match in order to proceed). Click ‘Continue’. You will be taken to your account. You cannot start a new application from within your account; your account is where you can access in progress or submitted applications. To start a new application, please see our ‘ How To Apply ‘ page. You will receive an email to confirm you have created a new account within a few minutes (please also check your Junk/Spam email folder). If you do not receive this email, please do not proceed as it is possible you could have created an account under an incorrect email address. Potential Error Messages when Creating New Account Invalid e-mail or password. This usually occurs when you are trying to create an account under an email address that has already been used to create an account. If this is the case, please log into your existing account (click on ‘Forgot Password?’ if necessary) rather than creating a new account. Please provide a valid e-mail address. An example of the valid format is grantseeker@organization.org . Your password must be longer than 12 characters The password must contain at least three of the following character types: Lower case, Upper case, Numeric, Special (!”#$%&'()*+,-./:;<=>?@[\]^_`{|}~) How can we log into an existing account? Here is the link to log into an existing account , which will open a ‘Please Sign In’ webpage. Type in your email address. Type in your password. If you cannot remember your password, click on ‘Forgot Password’ and follow the direction. Click ‘Login’. You will taken to your account. You cannot start a new application from within your account; your account is where you can access in progress or submitted applications. To start a new application, please see our ‘ How To Apply ‘ page. Potential Error Messages when Creating New Account Invalid e-mail or password. This usually occurs when you are using an incorrect password to log into an existing account (in which case, please click on ‘Forgot Password?’ and follow direction), or when you are trying to log into an account that does yet not exist (in which case, please ‘ Create a New Account ’ ). If you are unsure if an account already exists under the email address you are using, you could attempt to create a new account (you will not be able to if an account does exist) and you could try ‘ Resetting Password of an Existing Account ’ (you will not be able to if an account does not exist). The password must contain at least three of the following character types: Lower case, Upper case, Numeric, Special (!”#$%&'()*+,-./:;<=>?@[\]^_`{|}~) Your password must be longer than 12 characters Your account is not accessible at this time. Please contact us for further assistance. This usually occurs when your password needs to be reset from our side. In these cases, please email admin@foylefoundation.org.uk to confirm you are receiving this error message and request we reset your password. How can we reset my password of an existing account? Here is the link to the to reset a password of an existing account , which will open a ‘Forgot Password’ webpage. Enter the email address you set up your account with. Click ‘Send Password’. You will be taken to a ‘Please Sign In’ webpage, with a message in red stating “If the e-mail address entered belongs to a valid account, a temporary password is on its way. Check your inbox.”. You can close this webpage now. You should receive a ‘Password Reset’ email within a few minutes (please also check your Junk/Spam email folders). From the ‘Password Reset’ email, click on the link provided which will open a new ‘Account Log In’ webpage. Enter your email address. Enter the automated temporary password (provided in the ‘Password Reset’ email). Note that if you clicked the ‘Forgotten Password’ and ‘Send Password’ links more than once, you must use temporary new password from the most recent email you have been sent). It can be easiest to copy and paste the automated temporary password to ensure it is entered correctly. Click ‘Log In’ which will open a ‘Change Password’ webpage. Enter your ‘Current Password’ (which is the automated temporary password). Enter your ‘Password’ (which is your new desired password). It must contain at least 12 characters (with at least three of the following character types: lower case, upper case, number, special). Enter ‘Confirm Password’ (which is your new desired password, which must exactly match the ‘Password’). Click ‘Update’. Your password will now be updated. You will be taken to your account and will be logged in. You will receive a ‘Password Update’ confirmation email. Note: If you try to reset a password under an email address that has not already been used to set up an account, you will not receive the ‘Password Reset’ email. If you have not already created an account, please create a new account . If you have created an account, but you are not receiving the password reset emails, please see ‘Why am I not receiving emails from The Foyle Foundation’ question. How can we delete an account? If you wish to delete your account, please email us ( admin@foylefoundation.org.uk ) to request your account be deleted. Why am we not receiving emails from The Foyle Foundation? Emails sent from our grantmaking system are generated from mailuk@grantapplication.com or mail@grantapplication.com . The Foyle Foundation email domain is foylefoundation.org.uk . If you are not receiving emails from any of the above, check your Junk/Spam email folder. If email/s are found here, please mark them as ‘Not Junk’ so future emails do are received into your inbox (right click the email, then click on ‘Junk > Not Junk’) If you do not find our email/s in your Junk/Spam email folders please add the above email addresses to your email safe senders. To do this in Outlook (versions may vary), you need to: – On the Ribbon, from the Home tab, in the Delete group, select Junk. – From the drop-down list, select Junk E-mail Options. – Select the Safe Senders tab. – Click Add. – In the ‘Add address or domain’ dialog box, type an email address or domain. – Click OK. – In the Junk E-mail Options dialog box, click Apply to save your changes. Emails from this sender will now be prevented from automatically going to your Junk E-mail folder. If your organisation uses any additional computer/email security software (e.g. Mimecast) , please ensure that the email addresses and domain above are added to the ‘safe/permitted’ lists. Note that the system we use cannot currently verify email addresses when creating an account, so unfortunately is it possible to create an account under an incorrect email address you do not have access to (with a typo in it for example). Therefore, please take care to ensure your email address is correct when creating your account, and ensure you receive the initial account created email as confirmation. Within a created account, you can see the email address it is linked to in the top left hand corner. Is our data secure on the online account/application? IGAM (online application system) is operated by MicroEdge which conforms to strong industry compliance and security standards. How can we access previously submitted applications? Once you have submitted an application, you can access it again to view it via your account . Ensure ‘Submitted Applications’ is selected in the ‘Show’ dropdown options (to the right of the screen). Once an application is submitted, you will be sent an email to confirm, which includes a copy of your application to date. Once an application is submitted, it cannot be edited. If you need to provide any updates, please email the Foundation ( admin@foylefoundation.org.uk ). What are requirement forms? Once we receive an application, we use Requirement Forms to request information from applicants – these are published to your online account. This could be while we are reviewing your application, before a decision is made, or after a grant is awarded (if application is approved). How can we access requirement forms? When requirements are published to your account, we will send you an email to let you know. You will need to log into your account , and click on the ‘Requirements’ tab (towards the top left-hand side of the screen, next to the ‘Applications’ tab). Ensure ‘New Requirements’ is selected in the ‘Show’ dropdown options (to the right of the screen). As soon as you have opened and saved an closed the requirement once (even if no updates have been made), it will then show in ‘In Progress Requirements). Once you have started a requirement, you can access it again to continue working on it via your account (click on the ‘Requirements’ tab (towards the top left-hand side of the screen, next to the ‘Applications’ tab). Ensure ‘In Progress Requirements’ is selected in the ‘Show’ dropdown options (to the right of the screen). Each time you open your requirement, and then save and close it, you will an email to confirm, including a copy of your requirement to date. The due date for your requirement is listed next to your requirement within your account. Once you have submitted a requirement, you can access it again to view it via your account (click on the ‘Requirements’ tab (towards the top left-hand side of the screen, next to the ‘Applications’ tab). Ensure ‘Submitted Requirements’ is selected in the ‘Show’ dropdown options (to the right of the screen). Once a requirement is submitted, it cannot be edited. If you need to provide any updates, please email the Foundation. How do we know when requirements are published to an account, and when they are due? When requirements are published to your account , we will send you an email to let you know. The email will details what is needed and when the requirement is due. Within your account , in the ‘Requirements’ tab (towards the top left-hand side of the screen, next to the ‘Applications’ tab), you will be able to see all of your requirements. Note that if no requirements have been published to your account, there will not be a ‘Requirements’ tab. There is a ‘Due’ column which will show the date you need to submit your requirement by. How can we transfer our application/requirement form to a different account? Within your account, to the right of the application/requirement, under the ‘Action’ column, click the ‘Transfer to new owner’ button (it’s the symbol with the little person and two rounded arrows; if you hover your mouse over them, the action text appears). A new ‘Transfer to new owner’ generate email window will appear. Type in your name, and the email address of the account you wish to transfer to. You can click on ‘Check Email’ to see if an account already exists for the account you want to transfer to (if it doesn’t, an account under this new email will be automatically created and an email sent to inform them, with a temporary first time access password, which they will be asked to change when they first log in). The transferred account email address will receive an ‘Application/Requirement Transfer’ email, asking them to log into their account to complete the transfer. Once they have logged into their account, they will see the application/requirement and under ‘Action’ they will be able to ‘Accept Transfer’ or ‘Decline Transfer’. The application will be listed as a ‘Viewer – Transfer Requested’ until they accept, at which point it will be listed as ‘Owner’. If transferring an application, and it is ‘In-Progress’ (not yet submitted): Please ensure that the contact details within the application are updated if necessary. If transferring an application, and it is ‘Submitted’: If the contact details which were provided in your application need to be updated, please email us to ( admin@foylefoundation.org.uk ) If any requirements for this application have already been published to the old account, you will also need to transfer these individually if you want access to them in the new account. Note: If requested, we can transfer submitted applications or requirements on your behalf (you can email admin@foylefoundation.org.uk to request). However we are unable to transfer an in-progress application on your behalf. How can we email a copy of our application/requirement? Within your account, to the right of the application/requirement, under the ‘Action’ column, click the ‘Click to email a copy of this application’ button (it’s the envelope symbol; if you hover your mouse over them, the action text appears). Or from within an opened in progress application/requirement, click on the ‘Email Draft’ (towards the top right-hand side). This will open a ‘Send Email’ window where you can enter your name, and the email address you would like to send the application/requirement to, and then click ‘Submit’. Note that each time and save your application, you will receive an email with a copy of your application to date. How can we manage viewers of an application/requirement? Viewers have access to read your application, but they cannot make changes to it. You can have multiple viewers of one application, but the application can only be linked to one email account with access to edit. Within your account, to the right of the application/requirement, under the ‘Action’ column, click the ‘Manage Viewers’ button (it’s the eye symbol; if you hover your mouse over them, the action text appears, and it also shows you the number of viewers your application/requirement has). This will open a ‘Manager Viewers’ window where you can enter the email addresses you would like to add as viewers. You must click, ‘Add Viewer(s)’ to the right of the field. If you enter an email address that does not already have an existing account linked to it, a new account under this email address will be created (an email will be sent to the email address to inform them, with a temporary first time access password, which they will be asked to change when they first log in). If you wish to remove a viewer the ‘Manage Viewers’ window, you can tick added viewers and click on ‘Remove’. How can we access a printer friendly version of my application/requirement? From within an opened in-progress application/requirement, click on the ‘Email Draft’ (towards the top right-hand side). This will open a new tab with your application/requirment, which you can either right click and print, or you can copy and paste to a Microsoft Word document. If you open a submitted application/requirement, it will automatically open in this printer friendly way. Why are attachments not being accepted? The maximum size for all attachments combined is 25 Mb. Please note that files with certain extensions (such as “exe”, “com”, “vbs” or “bat”) cannot be uploaded. To add an attachment, you first need to click on ‘Choose File’. This will open your ‘Files’ window where you can browse for and select your file. Click ‘Open’. You then must click on ‘Upload’ to complete the process . Once uploaded, you will see the file name, the date it was uploaded, and the size of the attachment, with an option to remove it. Why are number field answers not being accepted? When entering Number Fields, the number alone needs to be entered, without commas, percentage signs, dashes or slashes or decimal points (percentages will need to be rounded to the nearest whole number). If a number is entered with any of the above, the system will recognise this as an error and the following error message will appear: This is not a valid number between -2,147,483,648 and 2,147,483,647 . Unfortunately once a number has been entered with an “error” you can’t just correct it, as the field has to be “reset”. To do this, the incorrect number needs to removed all together and then the page refreshed (either by saving and closing the application and reopening it, or by clicking into the next page of the application form and then going back). Once this is done and the field is “reset”, then if the number is entered a number without an error, it should now be accepted. Why are date field answers not being accepted? When entering Date Fields, it can be best to use the calendar icon, and then update the year (some internet browsers are in American date format, so this will ensure entered correctly both in date and format). Unfortunately once a date has been entered with an “error” you can’t just correct it, as the field has to be “reset”. To do this, the incorrect date needs to removed all together and then the page refreshed (either by saving and closing the application and reopening it, or by clicking into the next page of the application form and then going back). Once this is done and the field is “reset”, then if the date is entered without an error, it should now be accepted. How can we submit an application/requirement form? Once you have answered all questions, click on ‘Review’ (at the bottom of the page). This will allow you to review your application/requirement before it is actually submitted. This review page will alert you if there are any problems with your application/requirement, such as missing answers, or invalid answers. Once there are no problems with your application/requirement, at the bottom of the review page, you must click on ‘Submit’ . You will then be reverted back to your account, and there will be a message at the top saying “Thank you! Your application/requirement has been submitted.”. You will be sent an email to confirm your application/requirement has been submitted, which also includes a copy of your submitted application/requirement. Your application/requirement will now show under ‘Submitted Applications/Requirement’ instead of ‘In-Progress Applications/Requirements’ – you can click between these within the ‘Show’ drop-down (to the right of the screen). Once an application/requirement is submitted, it cannot be edited. If you need to provide any updates, please email the Foundation ( admin@foylefoundation.org.uk ). How can we delete an application form? If in-progress applications, within your account, to the right of the application, under the ‘Action’ column, click the ‘Delete’ button (it’s the dustbin symbol; if you hover your mouse over them, the action text appears). Once you click this, you will be asked if you are sure. If you click yes to this, your application will be deleted – this is permanent. You cannot delete already submitted applications. The Foyle Foundation is a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales No. 04006216 Registered as a Charity No. 1081766. Privacy Notice Home Legacy Grants Arts Charities Learning Charities School Libraries Resources for School Libraries Small Charities Legacy Grants Arts Charities Learning Charities School Libraries Resources for School Libraries Resources for School Libraries Small Charities About Us FAQs Completion of Grant Giving Programme Post Approval (if grant awarded) Online Accounts (technical support) Application Requirement/Forms (technical support) Completion of Grant Giving Programme Post Approval (if grant awarded) Online Accounts (technical support) Application Requirement/Forms (technical support) Contact Us Past Grants Last Three Years Major Grants Exceptional Grants Strategic Initiatives Last Three Years Major Grants Exceptional Grants Strategic Initiatives News Your Account