STRATEGIC INITIATIVES From time to time the Foundation will embark upon strategic initiatives where, following research, the Foundation will fund a programme of activities or a special scheme or project to address specific concerns and which will achieve higher overall impact than single grants would have made. Examples include the following: Foyle Young Poets of the Year Awards Devised and administered by The Poetry Society, The Foyle Foundation has invested in the Foyle Young Poets of the Year since November 2001 as the national poetry competition open to young writers aged between 11 and 17 years. Since 2001 our investment in the awards has totalled £2.23M, including a major legacy grant of £500K, enabling the competition to develop, fulfil its potential and become one of the premier literary awards in the country. Each year 100 winners (85 commendations and 15 overall winners) are selected from over 11,000 entries to receive their awards at the annual prize giving event on National Poetry Day. Ten winners from the 15 to 17 category attend a week long Arvon residency to develop their writing skills. Five winners from the younger age group benefit from poetry residencies at their school followed by distanced mentoring. Previous winners have gone on to be published in books and anthologies from Carcanet and tall-lighthouse, as well as magazines such as Acumen and on the Poems on the Underground project. You can also catch some of the winners reading at festivals across the UK. The London Philharmonic Orchestra’s Foyle Future Firsts Since 2004 the Foundation has awarded just over £1M towards The London Philharmonic Orchestra’s Foyle Future Firsts annual apprenticeship programme which helps to bridge the transition period between college and the professional platform for up to 16 outstanding young musicians each year. The scheme offers a varied programme of activities including 22 desk partnership rehearsals (active involvement in full LPO rehearsals), chamber music and orchestral performances, eight private lessons per participant with their relevant Section Principal, a wide variety of education work, mock audition seminar and special events throughout the year, plus a showcase concert held in the Purcell Room at the end of the academic year. National Cataloguing Grants Scheme for Archives The Foyle Foundation has awarded £750,000 (since 2008) towards the National Cataloguing Scheme for Archives, administered by the National Archives to which all applications should be submitted. During the first five years (2008 to 2013) the scheme awarded 53 grants totalling £1.5M to organisations throughout the UK to tackle the backlog in cataloguing nationwide. The funding partnership is led by principal funders The Pilgrim Trust, The Foyle Foundation and The Wolfson Foundation and supported by The Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation, The Mercers Charitable Foundation and the Goldsmiths Company. Foyle Science Scholarships Scheme In February 2008 The Foyle Foundation awarded £500,000 (payable over five years) towards the Foyle Science Scholarships at Imperial College, a continuation of the three year INSPIRE pilot which brings post-doctoral research scientists and PhD graduates upon completion of their research degree together with schools to expose young people to first-hand science research and to encourage PhD graduates to become teachers thus both improving science teaching and overcoming the shortage of dedicated science teachers. The programme will offer a specially designed nine month PGCE incorporating two months of integrated INSPIRE activities, which will include: master classes; science clubs; university-level training for post 16 students; careers advice; science conferences; and student visits to university research laboratories. Imperial College estimates that 30,000 pupils, together with staff in the selected schools/FE colleges, will experience the scheme and benefit during the five year period. The Foyle Foundation is a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales No. 04006216 Registered as a Charity No. 1081766. Privacy Notice Home Legacy Grants Arts Charities Learning Charities School Libraries Resources for School Libraries Small Charities Legacy Grants Arts Charities Learning Charities School Libraries Resources for School Libraries Resources for School Libraries Small Charities About Us FAQs Completion of Grant Giving Programme Post Approval (if grant awarded) Online Accounts (technical support) Application Requirement/Forms (technical support) Completion of Grant Giving Programme Post Approval (if grant awarded) Online Accounts (technical support) Application Requirement/Forms (technical support) Contact Us Past Grants Last Three Years Major Grants Exceptional Grants Strategic Initiatives Last Three Years Major Grants Exceptional Grants Strategic Initiatives News Your Account