MAIN GRANTS SCHEME GUIDELINES The deadline to submit final applications under the Main Grants Scheme is FRIDAY 31 JANUARY AT 11.59PM . General information on how to apply, including details on creating/accessing an account, and online application forms information can be found in the general How to Apply page. Please also refer to the Frequently Asked Questions where you can find further detail and guidance on eligibility and making an application (including technical questions about your online account/application form). Our Main Grants Scheme closes on 31 JANUARY 2025 . You can apply at anytime up to this date. All projects/activities need to be completed by the end of 2025 to be eligible for consideration. We have closed to applications for major capital requests £75K and over. We have also stopped accepting applications from schools. Please note that competition is intense ; we are receiving an unprecedented number of applications, many more than we are able to fund. Please also refer to the Frequently Asked Questions for further information on the gradual planned closure of all grant schemes. Who Can Apply The Main Grants Scheme supports U.K. based charities which have a core remit of the Arts or Learning . We welcome applications from all regions and countries of the U.K. Smaller Arts or Learning charities with a turnover of less than £150K per annum are usually more suited to our Small Grants Scheme . On occasion we can accept an application under the Main Grants Scheme, but in these cases, the decision may still be made to internally transfer the request to the Small Grants Scheme. Generally, the applying charity should be requesting funds for themselves rather than fundraising on behalf of another organisation. The applying charity must take full responsibility for any grant made, and funding for projects/activities/services must be managed/delivered/provided by the applying charity. We will support projects/initiatives where applicants work in partnership on joint projects with other similar organisations. In these cases, a lead charity must be identified and they must be actively involved with the project – they will be the applying charity and any grant would be made to them. We cannot accept applications from charities with a core remit of Health (we stopped our Health programme in 2009). We are unlikely to consider applications from social and community welfare charities under the Main Grants Scheme. We are unlikely to consider applications from grant making charities. School/colleges, PTAs, Friends Groups or Academy Trusts (even if they are registered as charities) are not eligible to apply. What we Fund We make single grants only (no multi-year grants) to charities that can demonstrate ongoing financial stability for the next 12 months from the date of their application. We can consider applications towards: Project revenue costs. Essential equipment and digital services. Core costs, which is aimed at those with no, or without significant, public funding. Capital projects. Note that we are now only accepting capital requests under £75K. The Foundation is unlikely to consider a request for building related costs if your lease is for less than 20 years. Please note that we do not fund feasibility studies and if RIBA stages apply, you must have reached at least RIBA Stage 3 before making a full capital application. Major infrastructure, services and equipment renewal projects will be eligible for consideration. We welcome projects/proposals that help reduce fixed or variable costs to promote efficiency savings, or which enable the generation of higher income, or additional revenue streams. We also welcome projects that promote environmental efficiency and reduce your carbon footprint or energy costs. Organisations and projects that provide direct benefits and services to the general public (rather than special interest groups) will be favoured. We will support projects/initiatives where applicants work in partnership on joint projects with other similar organisations. In such cases a lead organisation, to which any grant will be made, must be identified. Charities must demonstrate ongoing financial viability over the next 12 months. If you cannot demonstrate this, your application is likely to be declined. We do not to support start-up costs for new charities. Retrospective funding will not be considered. Arts Funding Priorities The Foundation seeks applications that make a strong artistic case for support in either the performing or visual arts. Our Arts programme aims to help sustain the arts and to support projects that help to deliver your artistic vision. We look for value for money, long term benefit and sustainability in projects that we support. Typical areas of support include: helping to make the arts more accessible by developing new and more diverse audiences; encouraging new work and supporting young and emerging artists; skilled freelancers and independent practitioners; projects that encourage sustainability by reducing overheads or which help generate additional revenue. This might include environmental improvements to save energy and lower carbon emissions. Learning Funding Priorities The Foundation will support projects which facilitate the acquisition of knowledge and learning and which have a long-term strategic impact. Key areas for support are: libraries, museums and archives; special educational needs (see below); projects that encourage sustainability by reducing overheads or which help generate additional revenue. This might include environmental improvements to save energy and lower carbon emissions; projects and activities which increase access and widen the diversity of attenders/visitors. Citizenship, esteem-building, independent living, vocational skills training, life skills, mainstream early learning projects or playgroups/preschools will not generally be considered under the Main Grants Scheme. Universities For Universities we will consider supporting arts, museum, archive or special collection projects, which meet a clear public benefit. All University projects should enable general and not just specialist use, the majority of time, and not be limited to out of term use, or be relatively inaccessible by being sited in remote parts of University buildings or campuses where public access will be restricted. In all cases we will expect Universities to be contributing to the project in financial and not just in-kind terms. Some grants may be offered on a matched funding basis. Special Educational Needs & Disabilities (SEND) Dedicated educational charities catering for those with SEND can be considered for educational/arts projects. Applications are normally considered towards supporting children and young people with SEND from 0 to 25 years to reach their educational potential. How Much Can You Apply For Please note that if successful, the Trustees may award less than the amount requested. Core/Project/Equipment Requests Due to unprecedented demand, the majority of revenue grants are in the range of £10K to £30K. The maximum request amount for revenue applications is £50K. Capital Requests Due to unprecedented demand, the majority of capital grants are in the range £25K to £50K, and all requests must be under £75K. When Can You Apply Scheme Closure Dates Our Main Grants Scheme remains open for applications from charities up until 31 January 2025 . All projects/activities need to be completed by the end of 2025 to be eligible for consideration. Otherwise, it remains a rolling process, and online applications can continue to be submitted at any time, up until 31 January 2025. We have closed to applications for major capital requests £75K and over. Decision Timeframes Once received, it will take up to four months, occasionally longer, to receive a decision from Trustees. Capital Projects For capital projects, please note that usually we will not accept an application if the design has not completed RIBA Stage 2 and reached RIBA Stage 3 (Developed Design). Please note that the major capital scheme for requests £75K and over has closed for applications . Applicants can still apply for smaller scale capital works with a request under £75K. Reapplying If a previous application was declined, the charity is eligible to reapply 12 months after the previous request date (please note scheme closure dates above). If a previous application was approved: Where a grant of less than £75K had been awarded, the charity is eligible to apply to the Foundation 12 months after the approval date (providing all requirements of last grant are fulfilled). However, please note that once you have received a grant from The Foundation you may not be a priority for funding in the following year. Please also note scheme closure dates above. Where a grant of £75K or over had been awarded, the Foundation will not normally accept a further application within three years from the date of the final instalment (providing all requirements of last grant are fulfilled). Please also note scheme closure dates above. Documents You Will Need to Attach to your Application Accounts: Latest full set of audited/independently examined yearend accounts Income and expenditure figures for the last financial year (applicable if there has been a completed financial year since your latest signed accounts, but for which accounts have not yet been finalised and signed) Latest full set of audited/independently examined yearend accounts Income and expenditure figures for the last financial year (applicable if there has been a completed financial year since your latest signed accounts, but for which accounts have not yet been finalised and signed) Annual Budgets: Current annual budget Annual budget for year any grant would be spent in (applicable if the request is for funding which would be spent in the year after your current financial year – this will often be the case when you are approaching your current year end) Current annual budget Annual budget for year any grant would be spent in (applicable if the request is for funding which would be spent in the year after your current financial year – this will often be the case when you are approaching your current year end) Request budget (not required if request is for core costs) Safeguarding policy (reviewed within last 12 months) Safeguarding We expect all charities applying to The Foyle Foundation, regardless of the type of charity, to have considered their safeguarding responsibilities and to have suitable policies and procedures in place to protect from harm all people who come into contact with the charity (including trustees, volunteers, staff and users/beneficiaries of the organisation) . As per Charity Commission guidance, if your charity works with children or adults at risk you should: Establish good safeguarding policies and procedures that all trustees, staff and volunteers follow, which fit with the policies and procedures of your local authority safeguarding partner or safeguarding children or adults board Make sure all staff and volunteers receive regular training on child protection or working with adults at risk Appoint a safeguarding lead to work with your local authority safeguarding boards and/or create a plan for responding to concerns overseas Manage concerns, complaints, whistleblowing and allegations relating to child protection or adults at risk effectively Have clear policies when DBS checks are required, how you assess the level of check needed and how you handle the information You must follow relevant legislation and guidance (please refer to this government guidance for safeguarding and protecting people for charities and trustees for more information). If you do not have adequate safeguarding policies, we may be unable to fund you. In order to submit an application on behalf of your charity, you should have permission of a Trustee and the charity’s Senior Management Team. The Foyle Foundation is committed to protecting all personal information you provide to us. Please also see our Privacy Notice . Copy of Main Grants Scheme Guidelines in Microsoft Word Copy of application/enquiry form questions in Microsoft Word – note that you cannot submit an application typed onto these documents; they are for reference only, to enable you to view questions before you start an application: Project, Equipment or Core Costs Application Form Questions Building Projects (request under £75,000) Application Form Questions The Foyle Foundation is a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales No. 04006216 Registered as a Charity No. 1081766. Privacy Notice Home Legacy Grants Arts Charities Learning Charities School Libraries Resources for School Libraries Small Charities Legacy Grants Arts Charities Learning Charities School Libraries Resources for School Libraries Resources for School Libraries Small Charities About Us FAQs Completion of Grant Giving Programme Post Approval (if grant awarded) Online Accounts (technical support) Application Requirement/Forms (technical support) Completion of Grant Giving Programme Post Approval (if grant awarded) Online Accounts (technical support) Application Requirement/Forms (technical support) Contact Us Past Grants Last Three Years Major Grants Exceptional Grants Strategic Initiatives Last Three Years Major Grants Exceptional Grants Strategic Initiatives News Your Account