About Us Awards and Accreditations Awards and Accreditations Alan Boswell Group are proud to have been the recipients of many awards and accreditations, from Feefo Platinum Service awards to Insurance Broker of the Year. Insurance Broker of the Year We’re delighted to have been named ‘Insurance Broker of the Year’ at the prestigious British Insurance Awards 2025, held on the 9th of July at the Royal Albert Hall. Feefo We believe exceptional customer service sets great businesses apart from the rest. Alan Boswell Group has been granted Platinum-Trusted Merchant status by Feefo for a fourth year. Insurance Broker of the Year We’re pleased to have been named Finance Monthly’s Insurance Broker of the Year in 2022 and 2023. The award is featured in their magazine alongside an interview with our Executive Chairman, Alan Boswell, which you can read here. Top 50 Insurance Broker Alan Boswell Group are pleased to be in Insurance Times' Top 50 Insurance Broker's list. Top 50 Personal Lines Brokers Insurance Age have named Alan Boswell Group as one of their Top 50 Personal Lines Brokers. Top 100 Independent Brokers As well as placing in the Top 50 Personal Lines Brokers, Insurance Age have also named us in their Top 100 Independent Brokers. Accreditations and memberships As a Group, we are accredited by the following: Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Chartered Insurance Broker from The Chartered Insurance Institute Chartered Insurance Broker from The Chartered Insurance Institute We are also members (or have staff who are members) of the following: Safety Assessment Federation (SAFed) Safety Assessment Federation (SAFed) Society of Operations Engineers (MSOE) Society of Operations Engineers (MSOE) Personal Finance Society (PFS) Personal Finance Society (PFS) The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) Chartered Institute of Personal Development (CIPD) Chartered Institute of Personal Development (CIPD) Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Chartered Management Institute (CMI) We actively support employees at Alan Boswell Group to continue learning. We currently have a number of staff with Chartered Insurance Institute qualifications and even more working towards CII qualifications.