Home > About Us About Us Our mission To build a thriving, generous and inclusive North East today and for generations to come by inspiring philanthropy, investing in communities and influencing change. To build a thriving, generous and inclusive North East today and for generations to come by inspiring philanthropy, investing in communities and influencing change. Our impact areas The regional challenges we focus on: Tackle poverty Widen access to opportunity Improve health and community safety Strengthen culture and community life Sustain our environment The regional challenges we focus on: Tackle poverty Widen access to opportunity Improve health and community safety Strengthen culture and community life Sustain our environment Our pillars What we do to achieve our mission: Inspire philanthropy : be the region’s go-to place for philanthropy, engaging more people and businesses in giving money, time and expertise, and using our knowledge to ensure current and future donors have the most impact. Find out more . Invest in communities : harness more funding and support to have a long-term impact on the challenges facing our region’s communities. Find out more . Influence change: shine a light on our region’s challenges and use our knowledge and networks to champion actions which better address them. Find out more . What we do to achieve our mission: Inspire philanthropy : be the region’s go-to place for philanthropy, engaging more people and businesses in giving money, time and expertise, and using our knowledge to ensure current and future donors have the most impact. Find out more . Invest in communities : harness more funding and support to have a long-term impact on the challenges facing our region’s communities. Find out more . Influence change: shine a light on our region’s challenges and use our knowledge and networks to champion actions which better address them. Find out more . How we work We are a registered charity and limited company established in 1988. We are governed by a board of trustees made up of leaders from the business, philanthropy, public, and charity sectors – most nominated from among our members. Our team runs the Foundation from our office, Philanthropy House, in Newcastle upon Tyne. We are the largest community foundation by asset size in the UK, and one of around 2,000 across the globe. Find out more about our people, our values , our friends and volunteers , and about becoming a member. You can also read more about our impact , download resources about our work, and get information on media and publicity . We are a registered charity and limited company established in 1988. We are governed by a board of trustees made up of leaders from the business, philanthropy, public, and charity sectors – most nominated from among our members. Our team runs the Foundation from our office, Philanthropy House, in Newcastle upon Tyne. We are the largest community foundation by asset size in the UK, and one of around 2,000 across the globe. Find out more about our people, our values , our friends and volunteers , and about becoming a member. You can also read more about our impact , download resources about our work, and get information on media and publicity . Sign up to our Newsletter Our fortnightly newsletter shares stories on how philanthropy makes a difference and will keep you informed about the latest funding and giving opportunities to help you change the world on your doorstep. We will only use your information as stated in our privacy notice we will never give your information to other organisations to use for their own purposes without your explicit consent.