Home > Cookie Policy Cookie Policy Cookies on this site This site, like many others, uses small files called cookies to help customise your experience. This page contains information on what ‘cookies’ are, the cookies used by this site, how to switch cookies off in your browser and some useful links. If it does not provide the information you are looking for, or you have any further questions about the use of cookies on this site, please email general@communityfoundation.org.uk. Cookies are small text files that are stored by the browser (e.g. Internet Explorer or Safari) on your computer or mobile phone. They allow websites to store things like user preferences. You can think of cookies as providing a ‘memory’ for the website, enabling it to recognise a user and respond appropriately. Cookies are small text files that are stored by the browser (e.g. Internet Explorer or Safari) on your computer or mobile phone. They allow websites to store things like user preferences. You can think of cookies as providing a ‘memory’ for the website, enabling it to recognise a user and respond appropriately. Every time a user visits our website, web analytics software provided by a third party generates an anonymous analytics cookie. These cookies can tell us whether or not you have visited the site before. Your browser will tell us if you have these cookies, and if you don’t, we generate new ones. This allows us to track how many individual unique users we have, and how often they visit the site. These cookies cannot be used to identify individuals; they are used for statistical purposes only. Every time a user visits our website, web analytics software provided by a third party generates an anonymous analytics cookie. These cookies can tell us whether or not you have visited the site before. Your browser will tell us if you have these cookies, and if you don’t, we generate new ones. This allows us to track how many individual unique users we have, and how often they visit the site. These cookies cannot be used to identify individuals; they are used for statistical purposes only. On some pages of this site, third parties may also set their own anonymous cookies, for the purposes of tracking the success of their application, or customising the application for you. Because of how cookies work, this site cannot access these cookies, nor can the third parties access the data in cookies used by this site. For example, when you share an article using a social media sharing button on the site, the social network that has created the button will record that you have done this. On some pages of this site, third parties may also set their own anonymous cookies, for the purposes of tracking the success of their application, or customising the application for you. Because of how cookies work, this site cannot access these cookies, nor can the third parties access the data in cookies used by this site. For example, when you share an article using a social media sharing button on the site, the social network that has created the button will record that you have done this. It is usually possible to stop your browser accepting cookies, or to stop it accepting cookies from a particular website. For example, we cannot tell if you are signed in without using cookies, so you would not be able to post comments. All modern browsers allow you to change your cookie settings. These settings will typically be found in the ‘options’ or ‘preferences’ menu of your browser. In order to understand these settings, the following links may be helpful, otherwise you should use the ‘Help’ option in your browser for more details. Cookie settings in Internet Explorer – Microsoft will no longer support IE after Aug 2021 so you may want to find an alternative. Cookie settings in Firefox Cookie settings in Chrome Cookie settings in Safari It is usually possible to stop your browser accepting cookies, or to stop it accepting cookies from a particular website. For example, we cannot tell if you are signed in without using cookies, so you would not be able to post comments. All modern browsers allow you to change your cookie settings. These settings will typically be found in the ‘options’ or ‘preferences’ menu of your browser. In order to understand these settings, the following links may be helpful, otherwise you should use the ‘Help’ option in your browser for more details. Cookie settings in Internet Explorer – Microsoft will no longer support IE after Aug 2021 so you may want to find an alternative. Cookie settings in Firefox Cookie settings in Chrome Cookie settings in Safari If you would like to find out more about cookies and their use on the Internet, you may find the following link useful: All About Cookies The IAB has provided the following website to give information specifically about privacy issues around Internet advertising: youronlinechoices.co.uk/uk For further legal information about privacy issues, you may find these links useful: Data Protection Act 1998 The Information Commissioner’s Office If you would like to contact us about cookies please email us at general@communityfoundation.org.uk. If you would like to find out more about cookies and their use on the Internet, you may find the following link useful: All About Cookies The IAB has provided the following website to give information specifically about privacy issues around Internet advertising: youronlinechoices.co.uk/uk For further legal information about privacy issues, you may find these links useful: Data Protection Act 1998 The Information Commissioner’s Office If you would like to contact us about cookies please email us at general@communityfoundation.org.uk. Sign up to our Newsletter Our fortnightly newsletter shares stories on how philanthropy makes a difference and will keep you informed about the latest funding and giving opportunities to help you change the world on your doorstep. We will only use your information as stated in our privacy notice we will never give your information to other organisations to use for their own purposes without your explicit consent.