Home > Safeguarding Safeguarding FAQs on safeguarding Every organisation we fund, not just registered charities and not only those working with children or vulnerable adults, need to demonstrate a commitment to Safeguarding. This page has important information about safeguarding for organisations that apply for grants from the Community Foundation. It sets out our expectations and gives suggestions of where you can go for more help. Safeguarding means protecting health, well-being and rights so that people – especially children and vulnerable adults – can live free from abuse, harm and neglect. A child is anyone under the age of 18. A vulnerable adult is anyone over 18 who has a need for care and support (for example because of illness, disability, drug and alcohol problems, asylum seeker or refugee status or frailty) regardless of whether these needs are being met by a local authority. Safeguarding risks include sexual harassment, abuse and exploitation; negligent treatment; physical or emotional abuse; bullying or harassment; commercial exploitation; extremism and radicalisation; forced marriage; child trafficking; female genital mutilation and discrimination on any of the grounds in the Equality Act 2010. Safeguarding means protecting health, well-being and rights so that people – especially children and vulnerable adults – can live free from abuse, harm and neglect. A child is anyone under the age of 18. A vulnerable adult is anyone over 18 who has a need for care and support (for example because of illness, disability, drug and alcohol problems, asylum seeker or refugee status or frailty) regardless of whether these needs are being met by a local authority. Safeguarding risks include sexual harassment, abuse and exploitation; negligent treatment; physical or emotional abuse; bullying or harassment; commercial exploitation; extremism and radicalisation; forced marriage; child trafficking; female genital mutilation and discrimination on any of the grounds in the Equality Act 2010. The Charity Commission regulates charities including the Community Foundation. It has detailed guidance on safeguarding that we must follow. Most of the organisations we fund help people who have lived experience of disadvantage or discrimination, or who are vulnerable. These people are at higher risk of neglect, abuse and exploitation. So, dealing with safeguarding concerns is common for organisations we fund. When looking at safeguarding, we want applicants and grantees to be open about issues and to learn from them. So, we think that appropriate handling and reporting of concerns is evidence of good practice. The Charity Commission regulates charities including the Community Foundation. It has detailed guidance on safeguarding that we must follow. Most of the organisations we fund help people who have lived experience of disadvantage or discrimination, or who are vulnerable. These people are at higher risk of neglect, abuse and exploitation. So, dealing with safeguarding concerns is common for organisations we fund. When looking at safeguarding, we want applicants and grantees to be open about issues and to learn from them. So, we think that appropriate handling and reporting of concerns is evidence of good practice. The Charity Commission says that as a charity, we must only fund organisations that have adequate safeguarding arrangements in place. So, safeguarding applies to every organisation we fund, not just registered charities and not only those working with children or vulnerable adults. The Charity Commission says that as a charity, we must only fund organisations that have adequate safeguarding arrangements in place. So, safeguarding applies to every organisation we fund, not just registered charities and not only those working with children or vulnerable adults. To be considered for a grant, all organisations must have policies and procedures that: 1. Show a commitment to protecting people from harm; 2. Make sure everyone in the organisation is aware of safeguarding; 3. Are publicly available, regularly reviewed and put into practice; 4. Enable people to raise safeguarding concerns; and 5. Set out how to handle allegations and incidents, and report to relevant authorities. For organisations working directly with children or vulnerable adults, there also needs to be a safeguarding lead, evidence of regular safeguarding training and appropriate checks on trustees, staff and volunteers in eligible roles. To be considered for a grant, all organisations must have policies and procedures that: 1. Show a commitment to protecting people from harm; 2. Make sure everyone in the organisation is aware of safeguarding; 3. Are publicly available, regularly reviewed and put into practice; 4. Enable people to raise safeguarding concerns; and 5. Set out how to handle allegations and incidents, and report to relevant authorities. For organisations working directly with children or vulnerable adults, there also needs to be a safeguarding lead, evidence of regular safeguarding training and appropriate checks on trustees, staff and volunteers in eligible roles. Organisations like community centres or village halls that rent space to other groups, or organisers of public events, do not always directly work with the public. But they still have trustees, volunteers and perhaps staff. They will still be in contact with children and vulnerable adults on their premises or at events. And, because they are trusted in communities, they may become aware of potential safeguarding issues. So, they must have adequate safeguarding arrangements. That includes making sure that any groups working with children or vulnerable adults on their premises or at their events have appropriate safeguarding policies and procedures. Very rarely, we may fund organisations that would never have direct contact with children vulnerable adults. We still expect such applicants to be able to demonstrate that safeguarding is a priority and that they meet the Charity Commission’s basic requirements. Organisations like community centres or village halls that rent space to other groups, or organisers of public events, do not always directly work with the public. But they still have trustees, volunteers and perhaps staff. They will still be in contact with children and vulnerable adults on their premises or at events. And, because they are trusted in communities, they may become aware of potential safeguarding issues. So, they must have adequate safeguarding arrangements. That includes making sure that any groups working with children or vulnerable adults on their premises or at their events have appropriate safeguarding policies and procedures. Very rarely, we may fund organisations that would never have direct contact with children vulnerable adults. We still expect such applicants to be able to demonstrate that safeguarding is a priority and that they meet the Charity Commission’s basic requirements. On our application form we ask you to describe your organisation’s approach to safeguarding. Safeguarding policies and procedures should be reviewed and dated every year for a registered charity or every 2 years for other groups. We ask you to tell us when your policies and procedures were last reviewed, how you would handle a safeguarding concern and (if you work directly with children or vulnerable adults) when you last had training on safeguarding. We ask you to send us your organisation’s safeguarding policies and procedures. We will also check our own records and any publicly available information on your organisation. We will consider your answers and review your documents to see if your safeguarding arrangements are adequate. We may contact you if we have questions about them. On our application form we ask you to describe your organisation’s approach to safeguarding. Safeguarding policies and procedures should be reviewed and dated every year for a registered charity or every 2 years for other groups. We ask you to tell us when your policies and procedures were last reviewed, how you would handle a safeguarding concern and (if you work directly with children or vulnerable adults) when you last had training on safeguarding. We ask you to send us your organisation’s safeguarding policies and procedures. We will also check our own records and any publicly available information on your organisation. We will consider your answers and review your documents to see if your safeguarding arrangements are adequate. We may contact you if we have questions about them. Sometimes local independent organisations like scout groups or sport clubs may be using the safeguarding arrangements of an umbrella or membership body. If this applies to you, you will need to answer the question on our application form and send a copy of the umbrella body’s policy. You will also need to complete and send a declaration stating when it was adopted by your local group, and who is responsible for your safeguarding locally. If you are an independent group working from another organisation’s premises, for example a community centre, you need your own safeguarding arrangements. Sometimes local independent organisations like scout groups or sport clubs may be using the safeguarding arrangements of an umbrella or membership body. If this applies to you, you will need to answer the question on our application form and send a copy of the umbrella body’s policy. You will also need to complete and send a declaration stating when it was adopted by your local group, and who is responsible for your safeguarding locally. If you are an independent group working from another organisation’s premises, for example a community centre, you need your own safeguarding arrangements. If you do not meet our safeguarding requirements, we will have to reject your request for funding. If you do have safeguarding arrangements, but we think they need significant improvement, we may suggest you get advice or training before we consider your application. If any improvements are minor, we may be able to offer funding, but with a condition that you make any changes before we award the grant. If you do not meet our safeguarding requirements, we will have to reject your request for funding. If you do have safeguarding arrangements, but we think they need significant improvement, we may suggest you get advice or training before we consider your application. If any improvements are minor, we may be able to offer funding, but with a condition that you make any changes before we award the grant. Further advice We cannot offer applicants and grantees advice on safeguarding. But every local authority has a Local Safeguarding Children Partnership (LSCP) and a Local Safeguarding Adults Board (LSAB) which co-ordinate what is done to safeguard and promote the welfare of children and adults in their area. So, we advise organisations with queries on safeguarding to contact these local boards for assistance. We cannot offer applicants and grantees advice on safeguarding. But every local authority has a Local Safeguarding Children Partnership (LSCP) and a Local Safeguarding Adults Board (LSAB) which co-ordinate what is done to safeguard and promote the welfare of children and adults in their area. So, we advise organisations with queries on safeguarding to contact these local boards for assistance. The following websites also have useful information. Charity Commission guidance on safeguarding NCVO free resources for voluntary organisations on safeguarding Government guidance on agencies working to protect children NSPCC resources on safeguarding children Government guidance relating to the care and support of adults Government guidance on Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks. Some local councils for voluntary service may also be able to help. You can find a list of them on our help and support page here . Sign up to our Newsletter Our fortnightly newsletter shares stories on how philanthropy makes a difference and will keep you informed about the latest funding and giving opportunities to help you change the world on your doorstep. We will only use your information as stated in our privacy notice we will never give your information to other organisations to use for their own purposes without your explicit consent.