Home > Start Your Fund Start your fund Giving tailored to your wishes Starting your fund at the Community Foundation is quick and easy. It is like having your own charitable trust but without the hassle of administration and regulation. We’ll advise you so your fund is set up in a way tailored to your wishes and circumstances. You’ll have a dedicated expert to advise you on philanthropy and funding. You can have privacy or publicity as you wish. And you’ll get regular feedback on how you’ve helped make a difference. Starting your fund at the Community Foundation is quick and easy. It is like having your own charitable trust but without the hassle of administration and regulation. We’ll advise you so your fund is set up in a way tailored to your wishes and circumstances. You’ll have a dedicated expert to advise you on philanthropy and funding. You can have privacy or publicity as you wish. And you’ll get regular feedback on how you’ve helped make a difference. Fund types We have two types of fund: invested and annual. Invested : your gift is held as capital earning income each year to support your chosen causes. Over time, the amount we distribute will outstrip your original gift, making a permanent asset for your community. Annual : your gift is held as cash to support causes in the year ahead. To keep the fund going, you need to make a new gift annually. We can also combine elements of invested and annual funds for you. For both types, there are a range of options to suit how involved you want to be, outlined below. We have two types of fund: invested and annual. Invested : your gift is held as capital earning income each year to support your chosen causes. Over time, the amount we distribute will outstrip your original gift, making a permanent asset for your community. Annual : your gift is held as cash to support causes in the year ahead. To keep the fund going, you need to make a new gift annually. We can also combine elements of invested and annual funds for you. For both types, there are a range of options to suit how involved you want to be, outlined below. Fund options Trust us to match your generosity with changing needs now and in the future Starting an unrestricted fund gives the Community Foundation the freedom to respond to our area’s most pressing priorities, through research, initiatives and funding. You’ll stay in touch with our work and have the chance to learn more about the difference being made. Invested funds can be set up with £10,000 or more Annual funds start at £5,000 a year Trust us to match your generosity with changing needs now and in the future Starting an unrestricted fund gives the Community Foundation the freedom to respond to our area’s most pressing priorities, through research, initiatives and funding. You’ll stay in touch with our work and have the chance to learn more about the difference being made. Invested funds can be set up with £10,000 or more Annual funds start at £5,000 a year Decide on the causes or communities you want to help, and we’ll use our expertise to direct support to organisations making the most difference. Starting a field-of-interest fund means you can support specific causes without having to be hands on. Your fund can be set up to benefit a particular place or interest, such as health, older people or homelessness. You’ll get regular updates on how the fund has made a difference. Invested funds can be set up with £25,000 or more Annual funds start at £10,000 a year Decide on the causes or communities you want to help, and we’ll use our expertise to direct support to organisations making the most difference. Starting a field-of-interest fund means you can support specific causes without having to be hands on. Your fund can be set up to benefit a particular place or interest, such as health, older people or homelessness. You’ll get regular updates on how the fund has made a difference. Invested funds can be set up with £25,000 or more Annual funds start at £10,000 a year Get the benefits of a charitable trust without the administration, giving you the chance to be hands-on and flexible with your giving. With a donor-advised fund, we use our expertise to identify and assess charities and community organisations which match your interests. You choose those you most want your fund to help. You can also nominate charities to us to get support. You also have the option to set up an panel to review requests for support with us. Invested funds can be set up with £50,000 or more Annual funds start at £30,000 a year Get the benefits of a charitable trust without the administration, giving you the chance to be hands-on and flexible with your giving. With a donor-advised fund, we use our expertise to identify and assess charities and community organisations which match your interests. You choose those you most want your fund to help. You can also nominate charities to us to get support. You also have the option to set up an panel to review requests for support with us. Invested funds can be set up with £50,000 or more Annual funds start at £30,000 a year Name one or more charities you want to benefit every year. You can designate a fund to support one or more of your chosen charities. We support them every year after checking they’re still working effectively. If something goes wrong, we can support an alternative charity. Invested funds can be set up with £25,000 or more Annual funds start at £20,000 a year Name one or more charities you want to benefit every year. You can designate a fund to support one or more of your chosen charities. We support them every year after checking they’re still working effectively. If something goes wrong, we can support an alternative charity. Invested funds can be set up with £25,000 or more Annual funds start at £20,000 a year A fund for your charity, forever. Agency funds are a special type of invested fund which is designated to benefit one charity forever. The charity is assured of a lasting income while we hold the fund’s assets. If anything goes wrong, the fund is reapplied for an equivalent purpose. Invested funds can be set up with £100,000 or more A fund for your charity, forever. Agency funds are a special type of invested fund which is designated to benefit one charity forever. The charity is assured of a lasting income while we hold the fund’s assets. If anything goes wrong, the fund is reapplied for an equivalent purpose. Invested funds can be set up with £100,000 or more Our impact Stories abut our work making a difference to lives in Tyne & Wear and Northumberland and across North East England Contact Lisa Cappleman Lisa engages people and businesses interested in making new or planned gifts, ensuring their wishes are met through the Foundation’s giving options. Sign up to our Newsletter Our fortnightly newsletter shares stories on how philanthropy makes a difference and will keep you informed about the latest funding and giving opportunities to help you change the world on your doorstep. We will only use your information as stated in our privacy notice we will never give your information to other organisations to use for their own purposes without your explicit consent.