Home > Vital Signs Vital Signs Vital Signs Vital Signs ‘takes the pulse’ of our region. It identifies issues we face, and how philanthropy can invest in good people, great organisations and special places to make North East England a great place to live. Vital Signs draws on reports, statistics, local expertise and the knowledge gathered our funding across the region. We see the reports as the start of a conversation, and would love to hear your views about the ambitions of local communities, their needs and what more we could do to meet them. We also want to hear if you think we have missed an issue that is important or have made a factual error. Just call or contact Mark using the form below. Vital Signs is based on work developed by The Toronto Foundation in 2001 and now involving community foundations across the world. You can find out more about the international Vital Signs movement here . Vital Signs ‘takes the pulse’ of our region. It identifies issues we face, and how philanthropy can invest in good people, great organisations and special places to make North East England a great place to live. Vital Signs draws on reports, statistics, local expertise and the knowledge gathered our funding across the region. We see the reports as the start of a conversation, and would love to hear your views about the ambitions of local communities, their needs and what more we could do to meet them. We also want to hear if you think we have missed an issue that is important or have made a factual error. Just call or contact Mark using the form below. Vital Signs is based on work developed by The Toronto Foundation in 2001 and now involving community foundations across the world. You can find out more about the international Vital Signs movement here . Vital Signs 2024 Reports Vital Signs is made up from the following Vital Issues reports. You can see a summary of all the reports here . An archive of all previous Vital Signs reports can be found here. How can philanthropy help build a strong regional economy where everyone benefits from increased prosperity? What opportunities can charitable funding create for people to learn, develop skills and achieve their potential? How can charitable funding improve the overall health of our region, and reduce differences in health outcomes between richer and poorer people? Can philanthropists help ensure that there are decent, secure homes for everyone who needs them? What support can philanthropy provide to help communities look after the environment and ensure the region rises to the challenge of climate change? How can philanthropists help people overcome the barriers they face in getting access to opportunities and services? What can charitable giving do to ensure our communities are strong, welcoming and able to cope with the challenges of uncertain times? How can philanthropy help foster the North East’s culture, from theatres, museums and concert halls to community arts, heritage and sports groups? How can charitable funding support work to protect people from crime, prevent discrimination and give opportunities for offender rehabilitation? How should philanthropic funds support those faced with a decline in living standards due to economic pressures and rising costs? Our latest reports Here are the most recent Vital Signs reports. As new reports are released they will be added here. Contact Hannah Mackay-Christie Sign up to our Newsletter Our fortnightly newsletter shares stories on how philanthropy makes a difference and will keep you informed about the latest funding and giving opportunities to help you change the world on your doorstep. We will only use your information as stated in our privacy notice we will never give your information to other organisations to use for their own purposes without your explicit consent.