Home > Book a Room Book a room Booking a room At Philanthropy House in Gosforth we have two rooms charities and voluntary groups can book for free for meetings. Both rooms are fully accessible and have audio visual facilities and free Wi-Fi. Complimentary hot drinks (tea/coffee) can also be provided. Simply click on “Book a room” below to visit our booking page where you can select the room, date, time and length of meeting that fits your needs. To select a room use the “Select Staff” drop down box. If the time you want is not shown then unfortunately that time and date is not available. Once you submit a request one of our team will contact you within two working days to confirm arrangements. At Philanthropy House in Gosforth we have two rooms charities and voluntary groups can book for free for meetings. Both rooms are fully accessible and have audio visual facilities and free Wi-Fi. Complimentary hot drinks (tea/coffee) can also be provided. Simply click on “Book a room” below to visit our booking page where you can select the room, date, time and length of meeting that fits your needs. To select a room use the “Select Staff” drop down box. If the time you want is not shown then unfortunately that time and date is not available. Once you submit a request one of our team will contact you within two working days to confirm arrangements. Boardroom Our boardroom at Philanthropy House can seat up to 24 people in a variety of table configurations from a traditional boardroom to small group layouts. The room has: A large wall mounted flat screen for presentations Web conferencing for hybrid meetings A hearing loop Our boardroom at Philanthropy House can seat up to 24 people in a variety of table configurations from a traditional boardroom to small group layouts. The room has: A large wall mounted flat screen for presentations Web conferencing for hybrid meetings A hearing loop Meeting Room The meeting room at Philanthropy House can seat 6 to 8 people. The room has: A large wall mounted flat screen for presentations Web conferencing for hybrid meetings The meeting room at Philanthropy House can seat 6 to 8 people. The room has: A large wall mounted flat screen for presentations Web conferencing for hybrid meetings Contact Jacqueline Turner Jacqueline is the first point of contact at our office and provides administrative support to the staff team and Board of trustees. Sign up to our Newsletter Our fortnightly newsletter shares stories on how philanthropy makes a difference and will keep you informed about the latest funding and giving opportunities to help you change the world on your doorstep. We will only use your information as stated in our privacy notice we will never give your information to other organisations to use for their own purposes without your explicit consent.