Home > Contact the Community Foundation Contact the Community Foundation Get in touch Community Foundation Philanthropy House Woodbine Road Gosforth Newcastle upon Tyne NE3 1DD 0191 222 0945 general@communityfoundation.org.uk How to find us The Community Foundation’s office is in Gosforth, approximately two miles north of the centre of Newcastle upon Tyne. Get directions using Google Maps . Community Foundation Philanthropy House Woodbine Road Gosforth Newcastle upon Tyne NE3 1DD 0191 222 0945 general@communityfoundation.org.uk How to find us The Community Foundation’s office is in Gosforth, approximately two miles north of the centre of Newcastle upon Tyne. Get directions using Google Maps . How to get to us The Community Foundation’s office is in Gosforth, approximately two miles north of the centre of Newcastle upon Tyne. These directions will lead you to the Salters Road public car park located next door to Philanthropy House. From the south on A1(M) 1. A1(M) forks shortly after the Washington Service station. Follow signs for A1 and take left fork. Take care – don’t follow A194(M) Tyne Tunnel route! 2. Follow A1(M) then after the A696 intersection branch off the A1(M) at the next slip road (signposted Gosforth and City North, take the third exit at the roundabout onto Kingston Park Road 3. Continue straight ahead, past the traffic lights and turn left at mini roundabout 4. Follow on to the end of Broadway West and turn right at the roundabout onto the B1318 Great North Road 5. Go straight on at the next roundabout, passing Asda on your left. At the third set of traffic lights, turn right onto Ivy Road 6. Follow the road till you get to the end and then turn right onto Salters Road 7. As you travel along Salters Road you will see the car park on the right From the north on A1 1. Follow signs for Newcastle Centre, not the Tyne Tunnel. 2. Continue south on A1 past B1318 intersection 3. Branch off A1 at the next slip road (signposted Fawdon and Kingston Park) and turn first left at the roundabout onto Kingston Park Road 4. Continue from instruction 3, travelling from the south From the West of Newcastle 1. Turn north onto A1 and continue from instruction 2, travelling from the south From Newcastle City Centre 1. Follow the B1318 North along the Great North Road. The dual carriageway narrows on reaching Gosforth High Street. Continue through Gosforth High Street. At the end of Gosforth High Street you will see a pub called The Queen Victoria on the right and Philanthropy House on the left (alongside the public car park). Take the next left after Philanthropy House and the public car park onto Salters Road 2. Continue from instruction 6, travelling from the south These directions will lead you to the Salters Road public car park located next door to Philanthropy House. From the south on A1(M) 1. A1(M) forks shortly after the Washington Service station. Follow signs for A1 and take left fork. Take care – don’t follow A194(M) Tyne Tunnel route! 2. Follow A1(M) then after the A696 intersection branch off the A1(M) at the next slip road (signposted Gosforth and City North, take the third exit at the roundabout onto Kingston Park Road 3. Continue straight ahead, past the traffic lights and turn left at mini roundabout 4. Follow on to the end of Broadway West and turn right at the roundabout onto the B1318 Great North Road 5. Go straight on at the next roundabout, passing Asda on your left. At the third set of traffic lights, turn right onto Ivy Road 6. Follow the road till you get to the end and then turn right onto Salters Road 7. As you travel along Salters Road you will see the car park on the right From the north on A1 1. Follow signs for Newcastle Centre, not the Tyne Tunnel. 2. Continue south on A1 past B1318 intersection 3. Branch off A1 at the next slip road (signposted Fawdon and Kingston Park) and turn first left at the roundabout onto Kingston Park Road 4. Continue from instruction 3, travelling from the south From the West of Newcastle 1. Turn north onto A1 and continue from instruction 2, travelling from the south From Newcastle City Centre 1. Follow the B1318 North along the Great North Road. The dual carriageway narrows on reaching Gosforth High Street. Continue through Gosforth High Street. At the end of Gosforth High Street you will see a pub called The Queen Victoria on the right and Philanthropy House on the left (alongside the public car park). Take the next left after Philanthropy House and the public car park onto Salters Road 2. Continue from instruction 6, travelling from the south Salters Road Car Park – NE3 1DH 60p – 2 Hours (Maximum) – 1 minute walk Sainsbury’s Car Park – NE3 1AA 60p – 2 hours (Maximum) – 5 minute walk Electric vehicle charging points On-street: The Grove – NE3 1NU Car park: St Nicholas Avenue car park – NE3 1AA For further information click here. Salters Road Car Park – NE3 1DH 60p – 2 Hours (Maximum) – 1 minute walk Sainsbury’s Car Park – NE3 1AA 60p – 2 hours (Maximum) – 5 minute walk Electric vehicle charging points On-street: The Grove – NE3 1NU Car park: St Nicholas Avenue car park – NE3 1AA For further information click here. Regent Centre Station 10 minute walk When coming out of the Metro Station, turn right, walking past the bus stops. Head towards the main road leading to Gosforth High Street. Continue walking down the main road until you reach the traffic lights on the corner of Salters Road, next to The Gosforth Hotel pub. You will see Philanthropy House in front of you beside the public car park. South Gosforth Station 15 minute walk When coming out of the Metro station turn left on Church Avenue, follow the main road all the way round until you reach the traffic lights on the corner of Church Road, next to The Queen Victoria pub. Across the junction on the left you will see Philanthropy House. For information on the Metro visit Tyne and Wear Metro. Regent Centre Station 10 minute walk When coming out of the Metro Station, turn right, walking past the bus stops. Head towards the main road leading to Gosforth High Street. Continue walking down the main road until you reach the traffic lights on the corner of Salters Road, next to The Gosforth Hotel pub. You will see Philanthropy House in front of you beside the public car park. South Gosforth Station 15 minute walk When coming out of the Metro station turn left on Church Avenue, follow the main road all the way round until you reach the traffic lights on the corner of Church Road, next to The Queen Victoria pub. Across the junction on the left you will see Philanthropy House. For information on the Metro visit Tyne and Wear Metro. There are also many bus services from the Haymarket Bus Station in central Newcastle that stop on Gosforth High Street close to Philanthropy House. To plan your journey visit Traveline or call them on 0871 200 22 33. There are also many bus services from the Haymarket Bus Station in central Newcastle that stop on Gosforth High Street close to Philanthropy House. To plan your journey visit Traveline or call them on 0871 200 22 33. We have a secure bike stand located at the rear of our building. You will need to bring your own lock to secure it to the stand. We have a secure bike stand located at the rear of our building. You will need to bring your own lock to secure it to the stand. Get in touch Get in touch with our team by filling out the form or alternatively, see our contact details below. Sign up to our Newsletter Our fortnightly newsletter shares stories on how philanthropy makes a difference and will keep you informed about the latest funding and giving opportunities to help you change the world on your doorstep. We will only use your information as stated in our privacy notice we will never give your information to other organisations to use for their own purposes without your explicit consent.