Home > Help and Support Help and Support Help with the Grantee Portal If you are having problems with the grantee portal the following may be of use as well as the Grantee portal notes below. To submit an application, you need to be registered on our grantee portal. If you are not currently registered, you need to allow up to two working days for your registration to be checked. The team will then grant you access to the grantee portal, and you can make your application. To register for access to the grantee portal please click here . Alternatively, you can click on ‘Grantee log-in’ at the top right of this page and then click on ‘Register’. To submit an application, you need to be registered on our grantee portal. If you are not currently registered, you need to allow up to two working days for your registration to be checked. The team will then grant you access to the grantee portal, and you can make your application. To register for access to the grantee portal please click here . Alternatively, you can click on ‘Grantee log-in’ at the top right of this page and then click on ‘Register’. If you have a problem logging in you can call or email us to confirm you have an account with us. If you have an account try resetting your password. If resetting your password does not result in you receiving an automated email with instructions on how to reset, it is likely you do not have an account with us. If you have a problem logging in you can call or email us to confirm you have an account with us. If you have an account try resetting your password. If resetting your password does not result in you receiving an automated email with instructions on how to reset, it is likely you do not have an account with us. This can occur after you have clicked save or submit and then used the back button on your browser to go back into the form. The form will have been saved and you will be able to see it listed under applications or monitoring. This can occur after you have clicked save or submit and then used the back button on your browser to go back into the form. The form will have been saved and you will be able to see it listed under applications or monitoring. In the unlikely event that your application did not save, we would recommend contacting us and we will investigate this for you. In the unlikely event that your application did not save, we would recommend contacting us and we will investigate this for you. Our website has accessibility tools via ReciteMe, however we are not able to provide these on our online grantee application portal. But we are happy to discuss alternative formats for your application to support your accessibility requirements. We have previously accepted word documents and videos. Please contact us by telephone 0191 222 0945 or email general@communityfoundation.org.uk so we can discuss the best options for you to apply using an alternative format Our website has accessibility tools via ReciteMe, however we are not able to provide these on our online grantee application portal. But we are happy to discuss alternative formats for your application to support your accessibility requirements. We have previously accepted word documents and videos. Please contact us by telephone 0191 222 0945 or email general@communityfoundation.org.uk so we can discuss the best options for you to apply using an alternative format Grants for organisations and individuals: grantee portal and application help notes These notes will help you make an application on our grantee portal and complete your organisation's grant application and make sure you give us all the information we need. Organisations in the region that provide advice and support It’s often a good idea to discuss your funding application with someone who can give you independent advice. The organisations below specialise in helping groups get started, expand and solve problems along the way. Information, support and advice to voluntary and community groups throughout Northumberland. Information, support and advice to voluntary and community groups throughout Northumberland. Independent specialist support and information for voluntary and community organisations in Blyth, Cramlington and Seaton Valley. Independent specialist support and information for voluntary and community organisations in Blyth, Cramlington and Seaton Valley. A voice for rural communities to influence policy on issues from housing, health and transport to broadband, services and fuel poverty. A voice for rural communities to influence policy on issues from housing, health and transport to broadband, services and fuel poverty. Supports to voluntary, community and social enterprise organisations in Newcastle and Gateshead. Supports to voluntary, community and social enterprise organisations in Newcastle and Gateshead. Advice, training, information and support to volunteers and to voluntary and community organisations working in North Tyneside. Advice, training, information and support to volunteers and to voluntary and community organisations working in North Tyneside. Supporting an effective and efficient voluntary sector in South Tyneside. Supporting an effective and efficient voluntary sector in South Tyneside. The Alliance is in place to support the voluntary and community sector in Sunderland, with charitable purposes, and is resourced for public benefit. The Alliance is in place to support the voluntary and community sector in Sunderland, with charitable purposes, and is resourced for public benefit. Support and development to voluntary and community organisations working to enhance the lives of Sunderland residents. Support and development to voluntary and community organisations working to enhance the lives of Sunderland residents. The support body for the voluntary, community and social enterprise sector in the North East of England. The support body for the voluntary, community and social enterprise sector in the North East of England. National advice and information The Charity Governance Code is a practical tool to help trustees. There are several national professional organisations which may help you in your work. Some of the best known are the National Council for Voluntary Organisations , Charity Finance Group and Chartered Institute for Fundraising . The Small Charities Coalition has a range of free resources covering all areas of work. The Charity Governance Code is a practical tool to help trustees. There are several national professional organisations which may help you in your work. Some of the best known are the National Council for Voluntary Organisations , Charity Finance Group and Chartered Institute for Fundraising . The Small Charities Coalition has a range of free resources covering all areas of work. Time to Talk If you want to find out more about Community Foundation funding before making an application, come along to one of our Time to Talk sessions. Sessions are open to staff, trustees and volunteers from groups seeking funding, and to people and organisations who advise them on making applications. Time to Talk gives an opportunity to share thoughts, ideas, good practice, and understand more about how we work. Sessions are either hosted online or run at our office, Philanthropy House in Newcastle upon Tyne, and at locations around the region. Advance booking is essential and we limit numbers to one per organisation (unless you have a support worker or carer with you). For in person Time to Talk sessions, we provide lunch and refreshments. If you want to find out more about Community Foundation funding before making an application, come along to one of our Time to Talk sessions. Sessions are open to staff, trustees and volunteers from groups seeking funding, and to people and organisations who advise them on making applications. Time to Talk gives an opportunity to share thoughts, ideas, good practice, and understand more about how we work. Sessions are either hosted online or run at our office, Philanthropy House in Newcastle upon Tyne, and at locations around the region. Advance booking is essential and we limit numbers to one per organisation (unless you have a support worker or carer with you). For in person Time to Talk sessions, we provide lunch and refreshments. Sector Support and development We offer access to a range of training and development opportunities to help organisations in our area be more effective and resilient. From governance to fundraising and more, our sessions help strengthen organisations We offer access to a range of training and development opportunities to help organisations in our area be more effective and resilient. From governance to fundraising and more, our sessions help strengthen organisations Sign up to our Newsletter Our fortnightly newsletter shares stories on how philanthropy makes a difference and will keep you informed about the latest funding and giving opportunities to help you change the world on your doorstep. We will only use your information as stated in our privacy notice we will never give your information to other organisations to use for their own purposes without your explicit consent.