The Equality Fund is Open for Applications As with previous years, this fund is focused on addressing the inequalities experienced by Camden residents due to race and/or disabilities. The panel have put together a fairly narrow criteria in hope to make the fund less competitive, and therefore increasing the chances of organisations led-by those who experience systemic disadvantage being funded. The Equality Fund is our flagship fund, and this year has been shaped by more than 100 people, with our alumni, our panel and the wider community all having their say on where this funding should be spent. It brings our manifesto to life in three ways: 1. We believe that people living with inequality are best placed to find the solutions. 2. We prioritise having accessible funding over counting the number of projects we fund. 3. People’s experience of life in Camden is not equal so people need individualised support. The Equality Fund is our only unrestricted fund, it's set up to provide unrestricted funding to Camden based small charities and social enterprises that actively bring together people from different backgrounds to create communities that can thrive in Camden. As with our other funds, these two-year grants of £30,000 (in total) to organisations will decided by a panel of residents with lived experience of the issues this fund aims to address. Applications close on Monday the 3rd of November 2026 at 4:30. We will only fund organisations whose primary focus is one or more of the following criteria: Joy and Integration. Providing spaces for joy and learning about each other for adults aged 30-66 and/or people with disabilities. The panel would like to fund organisations that challenge the assumption that people in this age range have everything worked out and should no longer be supported to come together. They are particularly keen to fund organisations where leadership is representative of the community they aim to serve and brings people together for joy. Joy and Integration. Providing spaces for joy and learning about each other for adults aged 30-66 and/or people with disabilities. The panel would like to fund organisations that challenge the assumption that people in this age range have everything worked out and should no longer be supported to come together. They are particularly keen to fund organisations where leadership is representative of the community they aim to serve and brings people together for joy. Employment Support. Providing work and leadership support for young people from the global majority and/or people with disabilities. The panel would like to fund projects with direct employment outcomes. If you are selecting this are of work; you should be able to tell the panel about employers you are working with. Employment Support. Providing work and leadership support for young people from the global majority and/or people with disabilities. The panel would like to fund projects with direct employment outcomes. If you are selecting this are of work; you should be able to tell the panel about employers you are working with. Mental Health Support. Supporting the mental health of global majority communities and/or people with disabilities. The panel are particularly keen to hear from organisations working to support adult's mental health and trauma and thinking about how that might benefit younger generations too. Mental Health Support. Supporting the mental health of global majority communities and/or people with disabilities. The panel are particularly keen to hear from organisations working to support adult's mental health and trauma and thinking about how that might benefit younger generations too. What does ‘Global Majority’ mean? Global Majority is a term for people who are not considered white, encompassing Black, Asian, Brown, mixed-heritage, and indigenous populations, who together make up about 85% of the world's population What does ‘Global Majority’ mean? Global Majority is a term for people who are not considered white, encompassing Black, Asian, Brown, mixed-heritage, and indigenous populations, who together make up about 85% of the world's population How can I get help with my application? You can contact the Grants team by emailing grants@camdengiving.org.uk. How can I get help with my application? You can contact the Grants team by emailing grants@camdengiving.org.uk. I have previously been awarded an Equality Fund grant, can I apply? If your Equality Fund grant has come to an end and you meet the criteria, you are welcome to apply. If you Equality Fund grant is still live, or you have overdue reporting, then you may not apply to the fund. We welcome applications from any We Make Camden Kits grantees as long reporting is not overdue. I have previously been awarded an Equality Fund grant, can I apply? If your Equality Fund grant has come to an end and you meet the criteria, you are welcome to apply. If you Equality Fund grant is still live, or you have overdue reporting, then you may not apply to the fund. We welcome applications from any We Make Camden Kits grantees as long reporting is not overdue. How will decisions be made? A panel of 12 Camden citizens with lived experience of racism and/or ableism, will review all applications and make decisions. How will decisions be made? A panel of 12 Camden citizens with lived experience of racism and/or ableism, will review all applications and make decisions. When will we find out the outcome of our application? We aim to let all applicants know by the 4th December. When will we find out the outcome of our application? We aim to let all applicants know by the 4th December. Can I use AI to help me write my application? Yes, but please read our AI Principles first. Can I use AI to help me write my application? Yes, but please read our AI Principles first. 2024 Grantees Running a Box For All programme, inclusive of ages 8-21, providing non-contact boxing, fitness training, mentorship, peer support whilst promoting confidence, catered to BAME beneficiaries. Enabling the continuation of delivering support, activities and learning and social opportunities to the underprivileged and under nourished areas of the community. There has been an evidence need and reliance on the services as of recently. Supporting the expansion of the academy’s programmes. aimed at providing alternative and legitimate pathways for young people at-risk of criminal exploitation. Developing a new 2-year scheme, offering 10 local young people experiencing barrier to education the opportunity to obtain NVQ Level 2 and 3 training and qualifications. Rolling out a ‘Before you Commit’ programme to schools across Camden, with the aim of educating young people about the criminal justice system and consequences of crime. The workshop including 7 extensive workshops in each school. Implementing targeted interventions to directly address systemic barriers and socio-economic disparities disproportionately affecting BME individuals and families, by expanding food distribution and increasing staff time. Providing an advice service, aimed at resolving urgent issues related to welfare benefits, debt, housing, school exclusions, and domestic abuse. Offering the advice and advocacy in English, Somali and French to address cultural and language barriers. Offer youth aged 18-25 free access to our multi-purpose creative studio, young people book facilities to learn and practice photography, fashion, music and more. Also collaborating to access the industry. 2023 Grantees Focusing on Camden's BME communities, particularly Bangladeshis providing tea&chat, daily meals, peer sessions, sewing class, seated exercise sessions, yoga and welfare advise. Creating equitable and inclusive opportunities for Irish people and the Irish diaspora of Mixed Race, Black, Asian, and Minority Ethnic backgrounds to lead, respond and be represented. Working with underrepresented and adversely effected Camden residents, to run bike refurbishing and distribution alongside training, involving these residents in the designing and decision-making. Tackling some of the inequalities and addressing the need for better climate resilience in Somers Town, helping residents to live healthy independent lives. Instating a ‘Director of Young People’, providing more tailored support to the young people we serve, allowing us to expand the work we do beyond the football, fostering wider community relationships. Developing an ‘Academy and Inclusion Voice Platform’, allowing upskilling of more members, building confidence, and drive health and opportunity via inclusive sports. Working with young people 18-25 who face inequalities especially in the pursuit of their career ambitions due to race or disability by providing tailored made life and career coaching sessions. Running an after-school code club, 9-13 year olds, introducing advanced modules and organising local hackathons and workshops addressing challenges faced by the Camden community. 2022 Grantees Providing young people with a safe place to get physically active, also incorporating non-contact boxing training with Cognitive Behavioural Therapy & Rational Emotive Behavioural Therapy Providing an after school mother and daughter group with fitness and conversations, bringing together people from diverse backgrounds, including Asian, Muslim, and Black communities. Working with refugees, asylum seekers and other displaced migrants. Using a unique place at the intersection of broad and particular, local and international, to move beyond basic needs. Using football as a means to engage with young people and build relationships, working with the most disadvantage young people with particular emphasis of those at risk of anti-social behaviour. Supporting the autistic community, with a focus on advocating and serving those who are work-ready and who aspire to meaningful and appropriate employment. Supporting young creatives aged 18-25, with an emphasis on black creatives in particular, who are more likely to face barriers to opportunities, by offering free studio spaces and therapy. Working with Afghan and Ukrainan refugee women we organise joint activities for both communities, including join ESOL classes, arts therapy groups and other community events. Centred around the well being of black women, by bringing black women from different generations together with an emphasis on mental health support. Supporting women, regardless of cultural/ economic backgrounds, beliefs, abilities, sexual orientation or age by providing a supportive & safe space at a practical, social and emotional level. Supporting broad communities through a small community-led museum and using activities, to connect marginalised local people to their heritage. 2021 Grantees Develop and design an inclusive online creative writing platform, proactively promoting the diverse and authentic stories of children, using pre-designed BAME animated characters. Combating poverty and social inequalities affecting disadvantaged ethnic minority families by facilitating access to information and referrals. To develop work with underrepresented communities particularly in the south Asian, Chinese Asian and Afro-Caribbean communities as well as other protected groups Working to encourage social interaction. Enriching life through music and art, promoting good nutrition and finding creative ways to communicate and adapt where needed. Providing a wider range of accessible activities throughout Camden launching and growing our new girls’ football programme and piloting a new disability football programme. Supporting the Family Centre, committed to understanding the needs of different communities, recognising barriers and working with families to overcome these and to benefit from resources. Deliver educational & culturally relevant support services to support the holistic development and cohesion of BAME and disadvantaged children, young people and families. Supporting young BAME people (15-30 year olds) into work. Aim to support, train and empower them to gain access to work, accredited training and gain leadership development. Working to reduce the inequality of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic parents, families and children which may also lead them to be at high risk, isolated or vulnerable designing activities in this ethos. The Equality Fund 2024 was made possible thanks to the financial support from Argent and Hat Trick Productions. The Equality fund will next open for applications next year, 2025, if you’d like to receive updates on funding please email grants@camdengiving.org.uk or sign up to our newsletter, below.