Business Support Our Approach We invest money in projects in Camden that overcome inequality. But we know that money alone can't break down barriers. It takes experience, knowledge and connections, as well as the generous support of corporate partners and friends of Camden Giving. This is why we are working collaboratively with businesses to offer specialist skills alongside Camden Giving grants. The benefits of working with Camden Giving include: Improving the lives of local people in Camden; Improving the lives of local people in Camden; Access to further opportunities and being part of a network of connections in Camden; Access to further opportunities and being part of a network of connections in Camden; Flexibility to work alongside businesses to form a long term partnership; Flexibility to work alongside businesses to form a long term partnership; Increasing brand visibility and engaging your work with other organisations in Camden; Increasing brand visibility and engaging your work with other organisations in Camden; Here are some examples of how you can be part of social change in communities: Small Businesses Design or co-brand a product or service with a percentage of sales supporting Camden Giving. Have a donation tin Design or co-brand a product or service with a percentage of sales supporting Camden Giving. Design or co-brand a product or service with a percentage of sales supporting Camden Giving. Have a donation tin Have a donation tin Medium Businesses Business donations. Volunteer with grassroots charities to give back to your local community. Get involved in fundraising events for example Tough Mudder or Giving Tuesday. Business donations. Business donations. Volunteer with grassroots charities to give back to your local community. Volunteer with grassroots charities to give back to your local community. Get involved in fundraising events for example Tough Mudder or Giving Tuesday. Get involved in fundraising events for example Tough Mudder or Giving Tuesday. Large Businesses Business donations Match funding Co-hosting events with staff & grantee’s Acknowledgement of support through Camden Giving social media channels. Sharing evidence and research of the realities of Camden and the Participatory Grantmaking Community. Staff engagement; for example challenge events, trustee matching events & volunteering. Work in partnership on funding opportunities Business donations Business donations Match funding Match funding Co-hosting events with staff & grantee’s Co-hosting events with staff & grantee’s Acknowledgement of support through Camden Giving social media channels. Acknowledgement of support through Camden Giving social media channels. Sharing evidence and research of the realities of Camden and the Participatory Grantmaking Community. Sharing evidence and research of the realities of Camden and the Participatory Grantmaking Community. Staff engagement; for example challenge events, trustee matching events & volunteering. Staff engagement; for example challenge events, trustee matching events & volunteering. Work in partnership on funding opportunities Work in partnership on funding opportunities Our Supporters Make a donation. Camden Giving is based on the notion that everyone has something to give - skills, time or money. We channel those resources into grassroots activities that responds to local need. If you would like to make a financial contribution towards our work overcoming local inequality, you can do so by choosing donate.