Influencing the Funding Sector Across the UK, funders, local governments, and communities are exploring with practical ways to put people closest to the issue in charge of decisions about money. Camden Giving is motivated by a desire to see more Participatory Grantmaking (PGM) in the UK. Our vision is by 2035, citizens across the country will be involved in funding decisions that impact them. We’ll use our experience of PGM over the last 8 years to influence the wider sector over and support foundations to turn this vision into practice, embedding participatory approaches and learning directly into their teams. All income from our consultancy is reinvested into Camden’s communities through our grantmaking programmes and capital projects. Our Services We provide flexible, tailored packages of support to help realise your vision for Participatory Grantmaking. We’ll work with you to understand your context, capacity, opportunities and navigate any challenges along the way. We always ensure our consultancy and support is rooted in shared values and includes an element of team learning and we can walk that journey with you. The services outlined below can be offered individually or combined into a bespoke programme: Grant Management Some funders may not have the infrastructure or capacity to hold grant funds and process payments directly to grantees. Camden Giving has the experience and systems to manage this on your behalf, ensuring funds are administered smoothly and responsibly. We support by: Acting as a banker for participatory funds, including managing reporting requirements and processing grant payments. Awarding grants to un-constituted groups or working with fiscal hosts where needed. Some funders may not have the infrastructure or capacity to hold grant funds and process payments directly to grantees. Camden Giving has the experience and systems to manage this on your behalf, ensuring funds are administered smoothly and responsibly. We support by: Acting as a banker for participatory funds, including managing reporting requirements and processing grant payments. Acting as a banker for participatory funds, including managing reporting requirements and processing grant payments. Awarding grants to un-constituted groups or working with fiscal hosts where needed. Awarding grants to un-constituted groups or working with fiscal hosts where needed. HR & Payroll Services If employing participants, managing HR processes or running payroll is a barrier for your organisation, we can provide the infrastructure and support to make this possible. Camden Giving can act as the employer lead, ensuring community panellists are properly supported with contracts, remuneration and HR processes. Our approach is flexible to individual circumstances, enabling residents to benefit from economic participation and wellbeing support. We support by: Acting as the employer for participants, providing payroll services and paying participants flexibly, holding payments in trust for those unable to be paid. Onboarding panellists as casual workers with full HR support and contracts, ensuring compliance with employment legislation. Capturing attendance and gathering pre- and post-surveys to understand participant experiences of PGM. If employing participants, managing HR processes or running payroll is a barrier for your organisation, we can provide the infrastructure and support to make this possible. Camden Giving can act as the employer lead, ensuring community panellists are properly supported with contracts, remuneration and HR processes. Our approach is flexible to individual circumstances, enabling residents to benefit from economic participation and wellbeing support. We support by: Acting as the employer for participants, providing payroll services and paying participants flexibly, holding payments in trust for those unable to be paid. Acting as the employer for participants, providing payroll services and paying participants flexibly, holding payments in trust for those unable to be paid. Onboarding panellists as casual workers with full HR support and contracts, ensuring compliance with employment legislation. Onboarding panellists as casual workers with full HR support and contracts, ensuring compliance with employment legislation. Capturing attendance and gathering pre- and post-surveys to understand participant experiences of PGM. Capturing attendance and gathering pre- and post-surveys to understand participant experiences of PGM. Safeguarding Lead The very nature of PGM can often mirror that of a frontline service, so safeguarding needs to be built into every stage the process. Our team - drawing on backgrounds in youth work, social work and governance - can act as your safeguarding lead. Our approach is grounded in trust: relational, justice-centred and flexible to individual circumstances, reducing barriers to participation while upholding a strong duty of care. We support by: Designing anti-oppression safeguarding plans that ensure participants are safe and that risks are minimised. Managing serious safeguarding issues. Embedding emotional safety practices and reflective spaces, alongside one-to-one wraparound pastoral support, so that panellists feel safe, supported and able to engage fully. The very nature of PGM can often mirror that of a frontline service, so safeguarding needs to be built into every stage the process. Our team - drawing on backgrounds in youth work, social work and governance - can act as your safeguarding lead. Our approach is grounded in trust: relational, justice-centred and flexible to individual circumstances, reducing barriers to participation while upholding a strong duty of care. We support by: Designing anti-oppression safeguarding plans that ensure participants are safe and that risks are minimised. Designing anti-oppression safeguarding plans that ensure participants are safe and that risks are minimised. Managing serious safeguarding issues. Managing serious safeguarding issues. Embedding emotional safety practices and reflective spaces, alongside one-to-one wraparound pastoral support, so that panellists feel safe, supported and able to engage fully. Embedding emotional safety practices and reflective spaces, alongside one-to-one wraparound pastoral support, so that panellists feel safe, supported and able to engage fully. Recruitment Services Drawing on our deep, cross sector networks beyond London, community-based referral partners and our wider influential presence, we utilise our resources and expertise to benefit communities on a wider scale. We’ll help you design inclusive recruitment processes and carry out targeted outreach to engage the communities you want represented in your PGM. Our approach focuses on equitable, low-barrier processes that value lived experience and ensure participants are fully supported by: Designing recruitment, application and outreach processes for panellists. Promoting opportunities and working with referral partners to get a diverse candidate pool. Sifting and interviewing candidates. Involving our Camden Giving Alumni in interviews, bringing in relavant experience to the process. Drawing on our deep, cross sector networks beyond London, community-based referral partners and our wider influential presence, we utilise our resources and expertise to benefit communities on a wider scale. We’ll help you design inclusive recruitment processes and carry out targeted outreach to engage the communities you want represented in your PGM. Our approach focuses on equitable, low-barrier processes that value lived experience and ensure participants are fully supported by: Designing recruitment, application and outreach processes for panellists. Designing recruitment, application and outreach processes for panellists. Promoting opportunities and working with referral partners to get a diverse candidate pool. Promoting opportunities and working with referral partners to get a diverse candidate pool. Sifting and interviewing candidates. Sifting and interviewing candidates. Involving our Camden Giving Alumni in interviews, bringing in relavant experience to the process. Involving our Camden Giving Alumni in interviews, bringing in relavant experience to the process. Facilitation & Training We can act as a knowledge partner and facilitator, drawing on eight years of best practice and our wider sector expertise in PGM to design tailored programmes across the PGM cycle, relevant to your context and needs. We support by: Designing and facilitating training sessions and grantmaking meetings. Supporting participants to build confidence in the grant process, including interpreting data and budgets, managing bias and conflicts of interest, and understanding impact. Developing tailored sessions such as co-designing funding criteria, evaluation and impact reviews, or assessment site visits. We can act as a knowledge partner and facilitator, drawing on eight years of best practice and our wider sector expertise in PGM to design tailored programmes across the PGM cycle, relevant to your context and needs. We support by: Designing and facilitating training sessions and grantmaking meetings. Designing and facilitating training sessions and grantmaking meetings. Supporting participants to build confidence in the grant process, including interpreting data and budgets, managing bias and conflicts of interest, and understanding impact. Supporting participants to build confidence in the grant process, including interpreting data and budgets, managing bias and conflicts of interest, and understanding impact. Developing tailored sessions such as co-designing funding criteria, evaluation and impact reviews, or assessment site visits. Developing tailored sessions such as co-designing funding criteria, evaluation and impact reviews, or assessment site visits. Use our Elevate Platform Elevate is Camden Giving’s community-owned Participatory Grantmaking platform, designed to make funding decisions transparent, equitable and rooted in community priorities. Each panellist has their own profile and voting history, while facilitators can track trends, consensus-building and equity in real time. Co-designed with a diverse group of Camden Giving panellists, Elevate reinvests its profits into local capital projects. We support by: Enabling panellists to vote, comment on and prioritise applications. Analysing application patterns (e.g. demographics, geography, funding outcomes). Tracking panel outcomes in real time, including funds allocated and remaining in the pot. Allowing abstentions to manage conflicts of interest without skewing results. Using custom tags and live comments to reveal equity gaps and prompt inclusive reflection during meetings. Elevate is Camden Giving’s community-owned Participatory Grantmaking platform, designed to make funding decisions transparent, equitable and rooted in community priorities. Each panellist has their own profile and voting history, while facilitators can track trends, consensus-building and equity in real time. Co-designed with a diverse group of Camden Giving panellists, Elevate reinvests its profits into local capital projects. We support by: Enabling panellists to vote, comment on and prioritise applications. Enabling panellists to vote, comment on and prioritise applications. Analysing application patterns (e.g. demographics, geography, funding outcomes). Analysing application patterns (e.g. demographics, geography, funding outcomes). Tracking panel outcomes in real time, including funds allocated and remaining in the pot. Tracking panel outcomes in real time, including funds allocated and remaining in the pot. Allowing abstentions to manage conflicts of interest without skewing results. Allowing abstentions to manage conflicts of interest without skewing results. Using custom tags and live comments to reveal equity gaps and prompt inclusive reflection during meetings. Using custom tags and live comments to reveal equity gaps and prompt inclusive reflection during meetings. Team Learning We provide thought-leadership sessions tailored for boards, staff and donors to build the confidence, tools and practices needed to embed participatory approaches more equitably. We support by offering: Tailored sessions to help boards and staff interrogate where power lies within the organisation, exploring which power may feel difficult to give up and steps to share power more effectively. Co-created guidance to support and empower staff and trustees on how they want to work with participants. Sessions with boards and donors to understand the potential of participatory approaches. We provide thought-leadership sessions tailored for boards, staff and donors to build the confidence, tools and practices needed to embed participatory approaches more equitably. We support by offering: Tailored sessions to help boards and staff interrogate where power lies within the organisation, exploring which power may feel difficult to give up and steps to share power more effectively. Tailored sessions to help boards and staff interrogate where power lies within the organisation, exploring which power may feel difficult to give up and steps to share power more effectively. Co-created guidance to support and empower staff and trustees on how they want to work with participants. Co-created guidance to support and empower staff and trustees on how they want to work with participants. Sessions with boards and donors to understand the potential of participatory approaches. Sessions with boards and donors to understand the potential of participatory approaches. Tailored Workshops & 1:1 Advice We’ll help you design Participatory Grantmaking programmes end-to-end, or focus on specific areas of the grant cycle - whether embedding PGM into a single fund, developing an organisational strategy, or running one-off or a series of workshops. Our support combines sector insight with practical guidance, tailored to your context we can walk that journey with you. We support by: Providing support to develop a strategy and ongoing advice for delivering PGM. Sharing insight into different models and approaches to PGM, exploring options relevant to your goals, reflecting on the practicalities of implementation. Delivering standalone workshops tailored to specific areas of PGM - for example youth empowerment in panels, equity in decision-making, or rethinking governance processes. Inviting Alumni members - who have been part of our grantmaking and the experts on good participatory practices - to join these sessions, to provide advice on participation and talk about their experience relevant to your vision. We’ll help you design Participatory Grantmaking programmes end-to-end, or focus on specific areas of the grant cycle - whether embedding PGM into a single fund, developing an organisational strategy, or running one-off or a series of workshops. Our support combines sector insight with practical guidance, tailored to your context we can walk that journey with you. We support by: Providing support to develop a strategy and ongoing advice for delivering PGM. Providing support to develop a strategy and ongoing advice for delivering PGM. Sharing insight into different models and approaches to PGM, exploring options relevant to your goals, reflecting on the practicalities of implementation. Sharing insight into different models and approaches to PGM, exploring options relevant to your goals, reflecting on the practicalities of implementation. Delivering standalone workshops tailored to specific areas of PGM - for example youth empowerment in panels, equity in decision-making, or rethinking governance processes. Delivering standalone workshops tailored to specific areas of PGM - for example youth empowerment in panels, equity in decision-making, or rethinking governance processes. Inviting Alumni members - who have been part of our grantmaking and the experts on good participatory practices - to join these sessions, to provide advice on participation and talk about their experience relevant to your vision. Inviting Alumni members - who have been part of our grantmaking and the experts on good participatory practices - to join these sessions, to provide advice on participation and talk about their experience relevant to your vision. Meet Our Experts The people that work at Camden Giving are our biggest asset in this work, it makes sense for us to support other foundations to move forward their funding practices. Our Staff and Alumni members bring years of expertise and relational skills from philanthropy, front-line youth work, social work and most importantly delivering PGM to flexibly support other funders to run in-house that gives genuine power to people to make funding decisions that affect them. With experience supporting 22+ foundations in the UK and globally, we bring expertise and networks that extend well beyond Camden to benefit communities on a wider scale. Our experience includes providing consultancy, tailored support packages and one-off workshops with the Botnar Foundation, Philanthropy Australia, Sainsbury’s Family Charitable Trust, London Funders members, PGM Community of Practice Start Well, BBC Children in Need, Youth Futures Foundation and Local Trust (Big Local). Natasha Friend - Director Our Director and an expert in participatory grantmaking. Natasha designed and set up Camden Giving’s approach, shaping everything from governance to culture. Natasha is part of the global Participatory Grantmaking Community of Practice and created an open-source toolkit to help others get started. She’s also supported other foundations to design and deliver their own participatory processes. Natasha Friend - Director Our Director and an expert in participatory grantmaking. Natasha designed and set up Camden Giving’s approach, shaping everything from governance to culture. Natasha is part of the global Participatory Grantmaking Community of Practice and created an open-source toolkit to help others get started. She’s also supported other foundations to design and deliver their own participatory processes. Danielle Green - Assistant Director Leads on co-designing partnerships between local government, communities and major land developers in London. Danielle set up Camden’s Citizen Social Scientist forum and has wide experience running community-led projects, from citizen research to participatory grantmaking. Within Camden Giving Danielle’s built the systems that keep things moving, covering fundraising, governance, HR, finance, volunteering and grantmaking. Danielle Green - Assistant Director Leads on co-designing partnerships between local government, communities and major land developers in London. Danielle set up Camden’s Citizen Social Scientist forum and has wide experience running community-led projects, from citizen research to participatory grantmaking. Within Camden Giving Danielle’s built the systems that keep things moving, covering fundraising, governance, HR, finance, volunteering and grantmaking. Suraya Miah - Participatory Facilitation Manager Suraya works alongside residents on our community grant panels, supporting them to take the lead in funding decisions. Before joining Camden Giving, Suraya worked with Camden Council, the Greater London Authority and UCL’s Institute for Global Prosperity, focusing on youth participation, safeguarding and citizen-led research. She’s passionate about co-designing programmes that put lived experience at the heart of decision-making. Suraya Miah - Participatory Facilitation Manager Suraya works alongside residents on our community grant panels, supporting them to take the lead in funding decisions. Before joining Camden Giving, Suraya worked with Camden Council, the Greater London Authority and UCL’s Institute for Global Prosperity, focusing on youth participation, safeguarding and citizen-led research. She’s passionate about co-designing programmes that put lived experience at the heart of decision-making. Daniel Jourdan - Head of Grant Programmes Daniel has facilitated more than 50 participatory grantmaking panels and supported over 200 grants to local charities and resident-led projects, distributing more than £1.5m in Camden. Before Camden Giving, Daniel spent 15 years in youth work across London, including developing an award-winning NHS partnership for young people affected by youth violence. Daniel Jourdan - Head of Grant Programmes Daniel has facilitated more than 50 participatory grantmaking panels and supported over 200 grants to local charities and resident-led projects, distributing more than £1.5m in Camden. Before Camden Giving, Daniel spent 15 years in youth work across London, including developing an award-winning NHS partnership for young people affected by youth violence. Get in Touch If you’d like to explore how Camden Giving can support you to embed Participatory Grantmaking into your practice, contact danielle@camdengiving.org.uk or click the button below. Testimonies BBC Children In Need " BBC Children in Need are delighted to be partnering with Camden Giving to help us embed participatory grant making. We’ve learned so much over the last 6 months, as we bring young people who represent the communities we fund to the heart of our decision making. We couldn’t be on this journey if it wasn’t for working with the team at Camden Giving. The young people we’re working with are providing so much knowledge and insight, it’s making our grant making meetings much richer as a result” Click here to read their blog BBC Children In Need " BBC Children in Need are delighted to be partnering with Camden Giving to help us embed participatory grant making. We’ve learned so much over the last 6 months, as we bring young people who represent the communities we fund to the heart of our decision making. We couldn’t be on this journey if it wasn’t for working with the team at Camden Giving. The young people we’re working with are providing so much knowledge and insight, it’s making our grant making meetings much richer as a result” Youth Futures Foundation "As the national What Works Centre for youth employment, understanding and embedding evidence based delivery is part of our role which is why launched our Evidence into Action funding programme i n 2024. We were excited to pilot some participatory approaches for this England wide funding programme and were supported by Camden Giving to provide consultancy on the design and facilitation of the funding programme.This included recruitment and training of 10 advisory group members formed of young people and youth practitioners, and facilitating moderation meetings for the group to provide input on the process and participate in assessments to support funding recommendations in Phase 1 of £563,321 made by Youth Futures Foundation" Youth Futures Foundation "As the national What Works Centre for youth employment, understanding and embedding evidence based delivery is part of our role which is why launched our Evidence into Action funding programme i n 2024. We were excited to pilot some participatory approaches for this England wide funding programme and were supported by Camden Giving to provide consultancy on the design and facilitation of the funding programme.This included recruitment and training of 10 advisory group members formed of young people and youth practitioners, and facilitating moderation meetings for the group to provide input on the process and participate in assessments to support funding recommendations in Phase 1 of £563,321 made by Youth Futures Foundation" Three Guineas Trust "The help and guidance from Camden Giving around their participatory grant making model was incredibly insightful and played a key part in helping us develop The Three Guineas Trust's pilot Access to Justice for Disabled People Programme. We appreciated their clear, down-to-earth method of sharing the values and practicalities of PGM. We have since invited item to present to our grants panel as well as The Sainsbury Family Charitable Trusts' group of grantmakers. " Three Guineas Trust "The help and guidance from Camden Giving around their participatory grant making model was incredibly insightful and played a key part in helping us develop The Three Guineas Trust's pilot Access to Justice for Disabled People Programme. We appreciated their clear, down-to-earth method of sharing the values and practicalities of PGM. We have since invited item to present to our grants panel as well as The Sainsbury Family Charitable Trusts' group of grantmakers. "