News Sign up to receive latest news Huge Thanks To Our Outgoing Chairman, Frank Myers MBE After nine years of dedicated leadership, Frank Myers MBE will step down as Chairman of Herefordshire Community Foundation (HCF) this… Read more Local Boy Hits the Headlines In Aid of George’s Fund Nine-year-old Floyd from Hereford is completing an awesome 145km challenge this September in honour of his friend George, who died… Read more We’ve reached an £8 Million Milestone in Local Grant Giving We’re proud to announce a major milestone in our mission to support vulnerable and disadvantaged communities across the county. Since… Read more George’s Fund makes a difference to children’s play in Herefordshire In January, George’s Fund awarded £38,476 to ten projects across Herefordshire that harness the power of nature to support children…. Read more New sculpture of ‘Dan the Dog’ unveiled at riverside in Hereford. On Saturday 26th July, Herefordshire Community Foundation was pleased to attend the unveiling of the new ‘Dan The Dog’ statue… Read more Support for hyper-local, community-led projects across Herefordshire Herefordshire Community Foundation is delighted to be administering the Small Sparks Fund, a new microgrant scheme designed to support hyper-local,… Read more A Hereford Graduate has been awarded one of the UK’s top design awards. Herefordshire Community Foundation (HCF) is pleased to have supported Hereford College of Arts (HCA) students’ attendance at the New Designers… Read more Lakelands Trail Marathan run for George’s Fund On Sunday 8th June, HCF’s very own Bridie Sullivan and her pal Faith Barcroft took part in The Lakeland Trails… Read more Malvern Hills traversed by walking party for George’s Fund On Saturday 20th May, 60 people embarked on an epic journey across 14 hills, walking 10 miles of the Malvern… Read more Former Head Boy of Ledbury Grammar Gifts £250k Legacy to County Stuart Michael Heaton has left a £250,000 legacy gift in his will to support good causes in Herefordshire. He died… Read more Herefordshire Businesses Come Together to Support New Charitable Fund At last week’s Herefordshire Means Business Expo at the Shell Store, Skylon Park, Hereford, Herefordshire Community Foundation launched ‘Business for… Read more Support for care-experienced parents in Herefordshire A new support service called The Baby Steps Project is now available for care-experienced parents and parent-to-be aged 16 to… Read more George’s Fund celebrates success with grantees at a ‘Day in the Woods’. On Friday 28th March, guests gathered in the beautiful woodland setting of The Cart Shed for a special event celebrating… Read more Ten community projects in Herefordshire recognised by High Sheriff’s Fund with £30k grant awards The outgoing High Sheriff of Herefordshire, Patricia Churchward, is bringing her year in office to close with the award of… Read more Internationally Renowned Artist Blacksmith Inspires Next Generation, Thanks to Support from New Fund Sixty-five artist blacksmith undergraduates at Hereford College of Arts (HCA) have enjoyed a unique opportunity to learn from distinguished Australian… Read more Support for Herefordshire Schools to attend the Hay Festival Last year, the Herefordshire Community Foundation was pleased to support schools across Herefordshire to be part of Hay Festival’s Programme… Read more HCF launches Surviving Winter Appeal Fuel poverty adversely impacts upon health and well-being through associated financial hardship and by increasing the risks associated with cold… Read more George’s Fund gives new grants to children’s outdoor projects in Herefordshire George’s Fund has awarded £38,476 to ten projects across Herefordshire that use the power of nature to help children. Set… Read more ­­­­Apple Cup 2024 Draws Record Crowd and Raises Thousands for Charity On Friday, 15 November, over 2000 rugby fans gathered at Hereford Rugby Club, for the fourth annual Apple Cup. The… Read more Grants for ‘Community Warm Spaces’ Once again we are providing help within our community this winter. Our Community Warm Spaces fund is awarding grants of… Read more Herefordshire Community Foundation Wins Charity of the Year 2024 at the Herefordshire Business Awards Herefordshire Community Foundation Wins Charity of the Year 2024 at the Herefordshire Business Awards Herefordshire Community Foundation (HCF) is proud… Read more Eight year old Louis Fisher awarded a prestigious accolade from the High Sheriff of Herefordshire Young Louis Fisher from Herefordshire has been honoured in a ceremony with the High Sheriff of Herefordshire, Patricia Churchward, thanks… Read more Grant opportunity for children’s projects as George’s Fund opens for applications George’s Fund is opening its second round of grant applications today. The fund celebrates the short and special life of George… Read more Thank you NFU Mutual Hereford from George’s Fund Laura Hughes who is one of our trustees and set up George’s fund to remember her five-year- old son George,… Read more Iron Fund packs a punch in the county The Iron Fund was established to provide grants which relieve the needs of people in Herefordshire. It favours projects which… Read more Applications Open for Becket Bulmer Fund The Becket Bulmer Fund is open for applications! It is focused on projects that promote cultural advancement, especially theatre, music and arts,… Read more Grants of up to £10k available to youth projects in North Herefordshire Herefordshire Community Foundation today announces that it is inviting community groups working with young people in the north of the… Read more Decentralised Funding Will Support Care Leavers in Herefordshire Through New Philanthropic Initiative Today, a new national programme of support for young care experienced adults has been launched throughout England. Managed by UK… Read more £136k Grant Boost for Community Health & Wellbeing Twelve local charities and community groups are benefiting from an injection of funding – totalling £136,363 – thanks to the… Read more HCF supports wellbeing of children and young people by subsidising special training for schools Local schools are being given the opportunity to receive subsidised training on a nationally-recognised programme designed to help pupils build… Read more Twelve community projects in Herefordshire recognised by High Sheriff’s Fund The outgoing High Sheriff of Herefordshire, Robert Robinson, is bringing his year in office to close with the award of… Read more Herefordshire Community Foundation is a Living Wage Employer We are pleased to confirm that we have been accredited as a real Living Wage Employer. Our Living Wage commitment… Read more Launch of new fund – Herefordshire Together Herefordshire Together is delighted to announce this fund in partnership with Herefordshire Community Foundation; which is the first of the… Read more High Sheriff Fund is open for applications “Law and Order and Community Cohesion” are all high on the agenda but the High Sheriff’s theme this year is… Read more UKCF launch new report on philanthropy A new report from UK Community Foundations shows that the determination of communities to prevail through tough times has not… Read more High Sheriff officially launches Surviving Winter appeal With 28% of Herefordshire households now living in fuel poverty (according to latest figures from Herefordshire Council), High Sheriff Robert… Read more HCF welcomes it’s new trustees Particularly as this week is Trustees Week, we would like to welcome our new trustees Jeremy Wilding, Sarah de Rohan… Read more Keeping Herefordshire Warm with our Community Warm Spaces grants Once again we are providing help within our community this Winter, with grants of up to £2,000 to heat community… Read more Emergency relief grants available HCF’s Emergency Relief Fund offers much needed support when disaster strikes. From house fires to flood damage, we’re here to… Read more Our grants – 2022 to 2023 Herefordshire Community Foundation is committed to transparency and we work with 360Giving to publish information about our grants. 360Giving is… Read more Launch of Surviving Winter Appeal Herefordshire Community Foundation is asking local residents to give to its Surviving Winter appeal to help vulnerable Herefordshire households to… Read more Half-Marathon run for George Well done and thank you to all those who ran for George in the Cardiff half-marathon last Sunday and to… Read more Supporting Early Years Musical Education in Herefordshire Thanks to Herefordshire Community Foundation and the Richard Bulmer Fund, Encore Enterprise have been able to continue their invaluable work… Read more Shortlisted for Community Champion of the Year! Herefordshire Community Foundation is absolutely thrilled to have been shortlisted for the Community Champion of the Year in the Herefordshire… Read more Helping alleviate winter worries: £500 grants for energy bills Herefordshire Community Foundation (HCF) is giving grants of up to £500 to help struggling households cope with fuel bills this… Read more The Joanies Fund is open to applications from projects across England and Wales. It supports a wide range of community projects, especially those working with young people aged 0 to 25.The average grant awarded by the Fund is £3500. Read more HCF Supports pupils to attend the Hay Festival HCF supports pupils to attend the Hay Festival Herefordshire Community Fund was pleased to award grants to 3 local schools… Read more HCF is a proud supporter of Herefordshire Carers Celebrating Carers Week 5th to 11th June 2023 HCF was delighted to attend the unveiling of Herefordshire Carers latest art… Read more From Hereford Blood Bike to days out for children with disabilities, 33k awarded by our Iron Fund Herefordshire Community Foundation today announces that a total of £33k has been awarded locally, via its Iron Fund, to enable… Read more Seven children’s outdoor projects awarded grants from George’s Fund From therapeutic Forest School sessions and accessible gardens to a new outdoor family space George’s Fund is delighted to announce… Read more High Sheriff’s Fund awards grants to 23 youth projects Herefordshire Community Foundation is pleased to announce that the High Sheriff’s Fund has awarded grants to 23 worthwhile projects across… Read more George’s Fund keen to support children’s outdoor projects Herefordshire Community Foundation is delighted to announce that after 18 months of local fundraising, George’s Fund – set up in… Read more Children & young people spring into social action thanks to seven pioneering projects From tackling climate change and empowering young carers to establishing a community garden, Herefordshire Community Foundation is pleased to announce… Read more Grants to help those struggling with energy bills Designed to support those most in need, including disadvantaged families with young children, the elderly and the disabled, the grants will go towards energy bills, water bills and essentials such as cookers and washing machines. Read more HCF launches 2022 Fuel Poverty Appeal Herefordshire Community Foundation (HCF) is launching its 2022 Fuel Poverty Appeal to help community spaces and vulnerable households this winter…. Read more New funding for children’s & young people’s projects Proud to be distributing the latest round of #iwill funding in Herefordshire, made possible thanks to the National Lottery Community… Read more Grants available to help households with energy bills Herefordshire Community Foundation (HCF) is giving grants of up to £500 to help struggling households cope with rising energy costs. … Read more County gets creative for Jubilee Communities across the county are set to get creative to celebrate the Queen’s Platinum Jubilee thanks to the Herefordshire Community Foundation which has announced almost £28,000 in funding from Arts Council England’s Lets Create Jubilee Fund for local projects. Read more Mum to walk 150 miles in memory of son A Herefordshire mum who lost her son to a rare brain tumour is gearing up to walk 150 miles from… Read more