Our funds & programmes Our funds and programmes enable us to support local worthy causes and individuals. Every single one of our funds and programmes is focused on tackling specific local challenges. Our funds Established by local individuals, families and businesses for the benefit of the county Usually set up as long-term endowments which generate income. This income is given out as grants to local causes that matter to the donor. Our programmes We are often appointed to administer grant-making programmes on behalf of partners. Our experience includes the Department of Work & Pensions, the Department of Culture, Media & Sport, The National Lottery Community Fund, The National Emergencies Trust, Herefordshire Council, Arts Council England and Made By Sport. Our funds & programmes All funds support activities across Herefordshire unless otherwise stated. Andrew Basnett Fund Remembering the talents of the blacksmith and art metal worker Andrew Basnett by inspiring and supporting the next generation of artisans. Find out more Becket Bulmer Fund Supporting projects that promote cultural advancement, enhance the education of young people, improve the environment and support disabled people. Find out more Bulmer Gilmour Fund A Fund which supports projects that help older people, vulnerable people and families with young children. Find out more Business for Good Fund Bringing businesses together to drive real change across Herefordshire. Giving together to help our county. Find out more Charles and Anna Saunders Family Fund The Charles and Anna Saunders Fund is dedicated to supporting projects that relieve the needs of people in Herefordshire, favouring… Find out more Charlotte Ballard Fund (Ledbury) Supporting children living in Ledbury. Find out more Community Warm Spaces Launched in 2023. This fund provides support to heat community spaces and run community food projects About Community Warm Spaces… Find out more Coneygree Ledbury Community Fund (Ledbury) Supporting voluntary and community groups, as well as individuals in hardship, in Ledbury and the surrounding area. Find out more CPRE Herefordshire Supporting groups that protect the Herefordshire countryside. Find out more Match-making local needs to the best fund We make it easy to apply for a grant. Our main application form invites you to share details of the support you need. Then, we will review our funds and programmes to find the best match.