Building a stronger Herefordshire We are Herefordshire Community Foundation (HCF), an independent charity raising funds locally and giving grants to those most in need across the county. Latest initiatives to change local lives Current appeals and grants, plus latest news. Huge Thanks To Our Outgoing Chairman, Frank Myers MBE After nine years of dedicated leadership, Frank Myers MBE will step down as Chairman of Herefordshire Community Foundation (HCF) this… Read more Local Boy Hits the Headlines In Aid of George’s Fund Nine-year-old Floyd from Hereford is completing an awesome 145km challenge this September in honour of his friend George, who died… Read more We’ve reached an £8 Million Milestone in Local Grant Giving We’re proud to announce a major milestone in our mission to support vulnerable and disadvantaged communities across the county. Since… Read more Support for hyper-local, community-led projects across Herefordshire Herefordshire Community Foundation is delighted to be administering the Small Sparks Fund, a new microgrant scheme designed to support hyper-local,… Read more We help the county by… Funding local good causes Supporting individuals in need Inspiring charitable giving & philanthropy Help us to raise funds for Herefordshire We connect people who care with the causes that matter Apply for grant support Our funds target the issues that matter most With our expert understanding of the county, our funds help tackle specific local challenges. HCF Care Fund Surviving Winter Fund Jack Hughes Fund What IS a community foundation? Community foundations are an international movement and there are 47 in the UK looking after every corner of the country. Working in specific geographic areas, they connect philanthropic people with local causes that matter to them. They build endowments and generate funds to support community needs and local organisations making a difference. Community foundations offer grant-making programmes funded by donations from individuals, families, businesses as well as grants from other bodies, such as the Government. Bringing together funds Distributing to local good causes I am pleased to say that since receiving the Richard Bulmer grant, I have purchased a Roland Td-50 electronic drum kit, second hand, including flight cases for protection. Since purchasing it I was booked for a professional contract at a pantomime where I have been performing daily. This has been the first professional contract I have received, and I was only able to accept because of my Roland TD-50 kit due to the specific request for an electronic drum kit. A new washing machine and cooker have given a family a new lease of life! The HCF has been a life saver – literally! Thank you to everyone in your office doing great things!!! I applied for a grant for a couple of training courses for a gentleman. He has passed both and is now looking into setting up as self-employed, so he is very grateful for this. Previously, he was unable to be employed due to complex PTSD affecting relationships within the workplace, so he was unemployed for a long time. This has enabled him to work for himself and set him on a whole new course in life. You guys are absolutely amazing. Leanne Dias Rodrigues, Employment Adviser, Landau Ltd We have now delivered three George’s fund sessions and it has been a joy to see the huge benefits the children have experienced. Many have been able to overcome challenges they didn’t think they were capable of and many have made huge strides in building their confidence. One of our tutors said to me that delivering the George’s fund sessions reminded her of just why she chose to become an Outdoor Learning Tutor and children have described the days they have had as the best of their lives! I would like to extend heartfelt thanks for a clear, helpful and supportive application process. Anne Richards Basement Youth Trust The Beneficiary is very grateful for your help. She asked me to thank you very much on her behalf. She checked her meters, she already has everything for her gas and electric. Thanks to this she won’t be sitting at home dressed warmly and also she won’t be worrying if she has enough to top up. When she saw the meters she cried with joy. She asked me to pass on heartfelt thanks to the whole team