How to apply We aim to make it easy and straightforward to apply for a grant from the Herefordshire Community Foundation. It’s easy to apply To apply for a grant, simply tell us about the help you need by filling in our main application form. Most people do this via the Apply for a Grant page but contact us if you would prefer a hard copy of the application form to be sent to you. Our Funds & Programmes operate in a variety of ways. In general, you make an application and then we will look to connect your cause with one of our Funds. In other words, you do not have to worry about applying to a specific Fund. Sometimes, we invite applications to a specific Fund or Programme by spreading the word via our e-newsletter (be sure to sign up) and our social channels. Finally, the Fuel Poverty Fund and Emergency Relief Fund have their own application forms. Visit their specific pages for further details. Please include evidence of need and clear outcomes in your application. Talk with us first We are always happy to offer guidance regarding funding applications. Many community groups, voluntary projects and charities find it helpful to chat through their proposals before submitting an application. We would love to hear from you! 01432 272 550 grants@herefordshirecf.org When should I apply? Some of our Funds are open all year round and make assessments on a rolling basis, whilst others only make decisions at specific points in the year. Our team knows the individual Funds inside out so it’s best to chat to them as they can advise if there would be any timing considerations regarding your application. We always recommend planning ahead, with submission of applications at least three months before funding is needed. However, we can reach decisions rapidly if circumstances require urgent funding or an immediate response. How are applications processed? Here’s what happens once your application has been submitted: We aim to acknowledge receipt of your application within seven working days. The application is passed to a member of the grants team. Our Grants Officers may get in touch to ask for more information or to arrange a meeting to discuss the application. Failure to respond within a reasonable timescale may result in withdrawal or rejection of your application. Applications will be considered by the relevant Fund panel and then sent to the Board of Trustees of the Herefordshire Community Foundation for final approval. We aim to give you a decision within four to six weeks of your application submission, although sometimes it takes longer. You will be informed of our decision by email. Successful applicants will be asked to complete and end-of-grant monitoring report one month after the project end date.