Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Terms & Conditions Privacy policy Privacy policy The Beaverbrook Foundation fully endorses and adheres to the principles of data protection as detailed in the Data Protection Act 1998. The Beaverbrook Foundation is committed to protecting your privacy. The Beaverbrook Foundation fully endorses and adheres to the principles of data protection as detailed in the Data Protection Act 1998. The Beaverbrook Foundation is committed to protecting your privacy. Your consent By using our website you are entering into an agreement with The Beaverbrook Foundation and consent to our website’s privacy policy and other legal information below. What information do we collect? We acquire information from you when you contact us through the website or by email. We do not add your information to the charity’s database, but your information may automatically remain on the charity’s computer system. Your information, whether public or private, will not be sold, exchanged, transferred, or given to any other organisation for any reason whatsoever. What do we use your information for? We will only use the information you provide to enable us to respond to your enquiry. How do we protect our information? We implement a variety of security measures to maintain the safety of all personal information when you enter, submit, or access your personal information. We offer the use of a secure server. Do we disclose any information to outside parties? We do not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer to outside parties your personally identifiable information. We may only release your information when we believe release is appropriate to comply with the law, enforce our website policies, or protect our or others’ rights, property, or safety. Cookies The Beaverbrook Foundation does not track or retain cookie information on the site. Your consent Your consent By using our website you are entering into an agreement with The Beaverbrook Foundation and consent to our website’s privacy policy and other legal information below. By using our website you are entering into an agreement with The Beaverbrook Foundation and consent to our website’s privacy policy and other legal information below. Website Usage Agreement Website Usage Agreement The Beaverbrook Foundation strives to present the most accurate and current information. By visiting this website, you understand that re-distribution or re-publication of any part of this website or its content is prohibited, including such by framing or other similar or any other means, without the express written consent of The Beaverbrook Foundation. The Beaverbrook Foundation strives to present the most accurate and current information. By visiting this website, you understand that re-distribution or re-publication of any part of this website or its content is prohibited, including such by framing or other similar or any other means, without the express written consent of The Beaverbrook Foundation. Links to this website Links to this website You may not create a link to any page of this website without our prior written consent. You may not create a link to any page of this website without our prior written consent. Links from this website Links from this website We do not monitor or review the content of other third party websites which are linked from this website. Opinions expressed or material appearing on such websites are not necessarily shared or endorsed by The Beaverbrook Foundation and we should not be regarded as the publisher of such opinions or material. Please be aware that we are not responsible for the privacy practices, or content, of these websites. We encourage our users to be aware when they leave our website and to read the privacy policies and or terms and conditions of these websites. You should evaluate the security and trustworthiness of any other website connected to this website or accessed through this website yourself, before disclosing any personal information to them. The Beaverbrook Foundation will not accept any responsibility for any loss or damage in whatever manner, howsoever caused, resulting from your disclosure to third parties of personal information. We do not monitor or review the content of other third party websites which are linked from this website. Opinions expressed or material appearing on such websites are not necessarily shared or endorsed by The Beaverbrook Foundation and we should not be regarded as the publisher of such opinions or material. Please be aware that we are not responsible for the privacy practices, or content, of these websites. We encourage our users to be aware when they leave our website and to read the privacy policies and or terms and conditions of these websites. You should evaluate the security and trustworthiness of any other website connected to this website or accessed through this website yourself, before disclosing any personal information to them. The Beaverbrook Foundation will not accept any responsibility for any loss or damage in whatever manner, howsoever caused, resulting from your disclosure to third parties of personal information. Images on this website Images on this website The photographs on this website belong to The Beaverbrook Foundation and cannot be used without the express consent of The Beaverbrook Foundation. If you wish to use any photograph, please contact us. The photographs on this website belong to The Beaverbrook Foundation and cannot be used without the express consent of The Beaverbrook Foundation. If you wish to use any photograph, please contact us. Copyright notice Copyright notice Copyright and other relevant intellectual property rights exist on all text and imagery relating to the full content of this website. The Beaverbrook Foundation’s logo is a registered trademark. Copyright and other relevant intellectual property rights exist on all text and imagery relating to the full content of this website. The Beaverbrook Foundation’s logo is a registered trademark. The Beaverbrook Foundation · 19 Crown Passage · London SW1Y 6PP jane@beaverbrookfoundation.org · 020 3325 3987 Terms & Conditions