Grant holders Project 2019 Girls Garage girlsgarage.org Girls Garage is an educational programme designed to encourage more female students in school years 10-11 to consider a STEM-related higher education, apprenticeship and career. The project introduces participating girls to the multifaceted nature of engineering and fosters confidence, motivating them to move into related industries. The aim is to challenge limiting perceptions and stereotypes regarding engineers and engineering, and increase the number of women working in STEM fields. Project 2019 TEDxWarwick tedxwarwick.com Modelled around the TED ethos of ‘ideas worth spreading,’ TEDxWarwick enables speakers to share their experiences regarding technology, business, sciences and other related fields. TEDxWarwick events for 2019 are driven by the themes of design and 'Architects of Tomorrow,' giving a platform to the inspirational speakers and innovators anticipating the evolution of design. Project 2018 Sarah Guppy: The Bridge, The Bed, The Truth showofstrength.org.uk ‘Sarah Guppy: The Bridge, The Bed, The Truth’ is a play written by Sheila Hannon about the extraordinary and often-overlooked engineer Sarah Guppy. Guppy patented a bridge in 1811 and ‘exercise bed’ in 1831, and was possibly the first woman to formally design and patent a bridge, yet her achievements have been largely been marginalised, patronised and denied the recognition they deserve. Hannon’s play hopes to give Guppy the recognition she deserves, choosing 2018 – the Year of Engineering and the centenary of Women’s Suffrage – as the year to set the record straight. Project 2018 Fire Safety Engineering Prize 2018 eng.ed.ac.uk 2018 Ove Arup Foundation Prize in Fire Safety Engineering at The University of Edinburgh has been presented to Cameron Creamer, who graduated with a MEng degree in Structural Engineering with Fire Safety Engineering. Project 2018 Extended support for SELA sela-sheffield.org Sheffield Engineering Leadership Academy (SELA) is a leadership development programme for undergraduate students that addresses the UK engineering skills gap by supplementing the technical knowledge of Sheffield engineering graduates with the skills and confidence to demonstrate leadership and make a positive difference to their working environment. Project 2018 Pupils call the shots in Artsdepot design project artsdepot.co.uk Artsdepot delivered an architecture and design project throughout Autumn 2018 in Barnet, North London, aimed at inspiring disadvantaged children and young people and enriching their school environment. They situated the architecture practice NEON in five Barnet schools and invited pupils to consider the built environment and the design process that supports the creation of our public spaces and environments. Each school had a budget of £1,000 to spend on capital improvements, and NEON architects took the pupils through a design process where they generated and chose ideas to make practical and aesthetic improvements to their school. Project 2018 The Anglo Danish Society 2018 anglo-danishsociety.org.uk The Foundation has made its annual award to a student who will be carrying out post-graduate studies at the Royal Danish Academy for Fine Arts (KADK) in Copenhagen. For 2018, the award goes to Archie Cantwell, and his work on ‘The changing role of the architect as strategic designer’.