Health inequalities Health inequalities What makes us healthy? What makes us healthy? Social connections Community power Our local environment Local economies Jobs and income Housing Education and skills Food security Digital inclusion Communities of interest Communities of interest LGBT+ communities Women Disabled people Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities Partnerships and Campaigns Partnerships and Campaigns We’re Right Here Campaign The Other Front Line Living Wage Campaign The Community Wealth Fund Alliance Collaboration for Wellbeing and Health Supporting mental health of grassroots VCS workers Community manifesto for health justice campaign Homes for Health - Time for action Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Mental health The national picture The national picture England Scotland Wales Cost of living crisis Health inequalities What makes us healthy? What makes us healthy? Social connections Community power Our local environment Local economies Jobs and income Housing Education and skills Food security Digital inclusion What makes us healthy? Social connections Community power Our local environment Local economies Jobs and income Housing Education and skills Food security Digital inclusion Communities of interest Communities of interest LGBT+ communities Women Disabled people Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities Communities of interest LGBT+ communities Women Disabled people Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities Partnerships and Campaigns Partnerships and Campaigns We’re Right Here Campaign The Other Front Line Living Wage Campaign The Community Wealth Fund Alliance Collaboration for Wellbeing and Health Supporting mental health of grassroots VCS workers Community manifesto for health justice campaign Homes for Health - Time for action Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Partnerships and Campaigns We’re Right Here Campaign The Other Front Line Living Wage Campaign The Community Wealth Fund Alliance Collaboration for Wellbeing and Health Supporting mental health of grassroots VCS workers Community manifesto for health justice campaign Homes for Health - Time for action Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Mental health The national picture The national picture England Scotland Wales The national picture England Scotland Wales Cost of living crisis Partner with us Partner with us Current Projects Project stories Running a project Running a project Resources for projects Training and network events 360 Giving Our networks Apply for funding Partner with us Current Projects Project stories Running a project Running a project Resources for projects Training and network events Running a project Resources for projects Training and network events 360 Giving Our networks Apply for funding Publications Publications Programme evaluations Case studies Reports Consultations Publications Programme evaluations Case studies Reports Consultations Programmes Programmes Health Justice Fund Health Justice Fund Homes for Health Nature for Health Nature for Health Application guidance What we don't fund Advice for Health Good Work for Young People's Mental Health Active Communities Local Conversations Our funding partnership Programmes Health Justice Fund Health Justice Fund Homes for Health Nature for Health Nature for Health Application guidance What we don't fund Advice for Health Good Work for Young People's Mental Health Health Justice Fund Homes for Health Nature for Health Nature for Health Application guidance Nature for Health Application guidance What we don't fund Advice for Health Good Work for Young People's Mental Health Active Communities Local Conversations Our funding partnership News News Blogs Press releases Podcasts News stories News Blogs Press releases Podcasts News stories Who we are Who we are Our team Trustees Values Equity, diversity and inclusion Safeguarding Safeguarding Our approach to safeguarding Climate Action statement Who we are Our team Trustees Values Equity, diversity and inclusion Safeguarding Safeguarding Our approach to safeguarding Safeguarding Our approach to safeguarding Climate Action statement What we do What we do Strategic priorities Annual Review and Accounts What we do Strategic priorities Annual Review and Accounts How we get our funding Support us Support us Corporate partnerships Winter appeal Support us Corporate partnerships Winter appeal Jobs Jobs What we offer Job vacancies Jobs What we offer Job vacancies Contact us Contact us Feedback and complaints Feedback and complaints Complaints about funded organisations Service related complaints Contact us Feedback and complaints Feedback and complaints Complaints about funded organisations Service related complaints Feedback and complaints Complaints about funded organisations Service related complaints Having a safe, secure and affordable home is one of the building blocks of health, but it is not available to everyone. Unequal access to affordable, secure and good quality homes means that, for many people, poor housing is a direct cause of short and long-term health issues. Too many people in England, Scotland and Wales are living in homes that are negatively impacting their health, particularly in the private and social rented sectors. One in five private renters reported that their housing issues or worries made them physically sick. 39% have housing problems or worries that leave them feeling stressed and anxious. About Homes for Health Homes for Health, launched in November 2023, is a collaboration between the Trust and experts from housing, community, and racial justice civil society organisations, delivering projects that respond to the growing problem of unfit private and social rented homes and their effects on tenants’ physical and mental health. At the centre of the work are marginalised people whose intersecting identities make them more likely to experience poor mental and physical health caused by their sub-standard homes and insecure tenancies. Homes for Health provides grant funding, resources and training, and facilitates a supportive network of peers to help to find practical, on-the-ground solutions, as well as encouraging action by decision-makers. The programme looks at how poor health and wellbeing arising from housing conditions can be tackled through local action, and influencing decision-makers and landlords. It will use a combination of community organising, collective action and campaigning to, Improve tenant knowledge on housing rights Increase tenant voice Improve housing conditions, standards and security which impact health. We worked with people with first-hand experience of poor health related housing, academics and sector specialists in developing the programme. An independent advisory group will advise the programme throughout. Ecorys UK are independently evaluating Homes for Health to formally measure the impact of the work. This will involve training and working with local community researchers. Improved housing standards will go a long way towards improving the health and wellbeing of tenants who have carried the burden of the current housing and cost of living crises and face unequal and unsafe housing conditions." Development Officer at ACORN Funding through Homes for Health Through an investment of nearly £600, 000, we are funding ten projects across England, Scotland and Wales, working with the following organisations: ACORN (The Association of Community Organisations for Reform Now Ltd) – Working with social and private tenants living in Splott and Adamsdown, Cardiff, Knowle West, Bristol and the Holme Wood estate in Bradford. Read more about Holme Wood and Tatiana's story. Caribbean & African Health Network – Working with Black Caribbean and African private tenants in Gorton, Manchester. Read Augustina's story. Citizens UK – Working with social and private tenants living in Ely, Cardiff, with a particular focus on communities experiencing racial inequity. Read Helen's story. Community Renewal Trust – working with private and social tenants living in Govanhill, Glasgow, with a particular focus on the Roma community. Edberts House – working with private sector tenants living in Felling, Gateshead, Leeds Muslim Youth Forum – working with communities experiencing racial inequity, with a particular focus on young people living in rented accommodation in Harehills, Leeds. Living Rent – working with social tenants in Knightswood, Glasgow and in Lochend, Restalrig and Craigentinny, Edinburgh. Organisations with a previous track record in housing and advocacy were invited to apply for the fund. The advisory group informed the final selection of funded projects. Media coverage Homes for Health and our funded partners have been covered in the following outlets. The Independent - covering our Time for Action campaign Manchester Evening News - with testimony from Augustina provided by Caribbean & African Health Network Yorkshire Post - covering our Time for Action campaign BBC News Online - with testimony from Tatiana, a member of ACORN's Bradford branch BBC News Online - with testimony and a spokesperson from Leeds Muslim Youth Forum BBC Look North and BBC Politics North - testimony from Tatiana from Acorn BBC News Online - with a quote from our CEO John Hume Find out more Sign up to our newsletter and follow us on social media for the latest updates on Homes for Health. Our England-wide campaign calling for stronger housing enforcement to tackle housing conditions that threaten the health of private tenants. Helen talks about the damp and mould problems that led to her hospitalisation for respiratory problems and how she feels more empowered and better able to change housing conditions in Ely In this section Nature for Health What we don't fund Advice for Health Good Work for Young People's Mental Health Funding Subscribe Join our email newsletter and stay up to date with our latest funding announcements and policy updates. Contact us Support us Jobs What we do Who we are How we get our funding facebook x linked in bluesky 020 4548 0939 enquiries@peopleshealthtrust.org.uk People's Health Trust 19-21 Garden Walk, London, EC2A 3EQ © People's Health Trust 2025. All rights reserved. Registered Company number: 6492606 Registered Charity number England and Wales: 1125537 Scotland: SC039848 Registered address: People’s Health Trust c/o Sayer Vincent, 110 Golden Lane, London, EC1Y 0TG. Cookies Privacy Accessibility Subscribe below to stay up to date with our latest news.