Health inequalities Health inequalities What makes us healthy? What makes us healthy? Social connections Community power Our local environment Local economies Jobs and income Housing Education and skills Food security Digital inclusion Communities of interest Communities of interest LGBT+ communities Women Disabled people Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities Partnerships and Campaigns Partnerships and Campaigns We’re Right Here Campaign The Other Front Line Living Wage Campaign The Community Wealth Fund Alliance Collaboration for Wellbeing and Health Supporting mental health of grassroots VCS workers Community manifesto for health justice campaign Homes for Health - Time for action Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Mental health The national picture The national picture England Scotland Wales Cost of living crisis Health inequalities What makes us healthy? What makes us healthy? Social connections Community power Our local environment Local economies Jobs and income Housing Education and skills Food security Digital inclusion What makes us healthy? Social connections Community power Our local environment Local economies Jobs and income Housing Education and skills Food security Digital inclusion Communities of interest Communities of interest LGBT+ communities Women Disabled people Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities Communities of interest LGBT+ communities Women Disabled people Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities Partnerships and Campaigns Partnerships and Campaigns We’re Right Here Campaign The Other Front Line Living Wage Campaign The Community Wealth Fund Alliance Collaboration for Wellbeing and Health Supporting mental health of grassroots VCS workers Community manifesto for health justice campaign Homes for Health - Time for action Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Partnerships and Campaigns We’re Right Here Campaign The Other Front Line Living Wage Campaign The Community Wealth Fund Alliance Collaboration for Wellbeing and Health Supporting mental health of grassroots VCS workers Community manifesto for health justice campaign Homes for Health - Time for action Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Mental health The national picture The national picture England Scotland Wales The national picture England Scotland Wales Cost of living crisis Partner with us Partner with us Current Projects Project stories Running a project Running a project Resources for projects Training and network events 360 Giving Our networks Apply for funding Partner with us Current Projects Project stories Running a project Running a project Resources for projects Training and network events Running a project Resources for projects Training and network events 360 Giving Our networks Apply for funding Publications Publications Programme evaluations Case studies Reports Consultations Publications Programme evaluations Case studies Reports Consultations Programmes Programmes Health Justice Fund Health Justice Fund Homes for Health Nature for Health Nature for Health Application guidance What we don't fund Advice for Health Good Work for Young People's Mental Health Active Communities Local Conversations Our funding partnership Programmes Health Justice Fund Health Justice Fund Homes for Health Nature for Health Nature for Health Application guidance What we don't fund Advice for Health Good Work for Young People's Mental Health Health Justice Fund Homes for Health Nature for Health Nature for Health Application guidance Nature for Health Application guidance What we don't fund Advice for Health Good Work for Young People's Mental Health Active Communities Local Conversations Our funding partnership News News Blogs Press releases Podcasts News stories News Blogs Press releases Podcasts News stories Who we are Who we are Our team Trustees Values Equity, diversity and inclusion Safeguarding Safeguarding Our approach to safeguarding Climate Action statement Who we are Our team Trustees Values Equity, diversity and inclusion Safeguarding Safeguarding Our approach to safeguarding Safeguarding Our approach to safeguarding Climate Action statement What we do What we do Strategic priorities Annual Review and Accounts What we do Strategic priorities Annual Review and Accounts How we get our funding Support us Support us Corporate partnerships Winter appeal Support us Corporate partnerships Winter appeal Jobs Jobs What we offer Job vacancies Jobs What we offer Job vacancies Contact us Contact us Feedback and complaints Feedback and complaints Complaints about funded organisations Service related complaints Contact us Feedback and complaints Feedback and complaints Complaints about funded organisations Service related complaints Feedback and complaints Complaints about funded organisations Service related complaints We fund grassroots organisations that tackle health inequality and provide community-led support for the most marginalised communities in Great Britain. These life-changing organisations are providing solutions to some of society’s biggest issues, such as bad quality housing, youth unemployment, poor mental health, and discrimination. Together, we help people like: James : James did not leave his house for years because of severe social anxiety which made him unable to attend school. Now he has access to training and experience in work and he feels like he has a purpose. Read James' story Helen : Helen felt like giving up after being hospitalised waiting for repairs to damp and mould in her home. Now Helen is making her voice heard as part of a tenant action group and fighting for improved housing conditions for her community. Read Helen's story Marisa : Marisa was struggling with mental health and a sense of purpose. With access to a youth worker, Marisa’s mental health improved and she attended college. Now she supports other young Roma people to feel accepted in the local community. Read Marisa's story Barriers to Employment has had a huge benefit to my mental health. Meeting new people and getting out of the house was so important. It gave me a purpose and somewhere to go. Now I feel prepared and ready to get out there and apply for jobs. It’s made such a difference to me. If you are a responsible business or philanthropic individual who cares greatly about supporting their local community, we want to hear from you. We work with donors to develop bespoke funding programmes and offer matched funding to ensure each donation we receive is both targeted and maximised. Responsible businesses: by working with us as a corporate partner, you can help the UK’s most vulnerable people live longer and happier lives in good health. Get in touch today to discuss how working with us can deliver benefits for your company and employees, whilst also delivering significant impact in your local community. Philanthropic individuals: whether it's a one-off gift, or a regular donation, you can be sure that every £1 you donate to us goes toward improving the lives of marginalised people struggling with health inequality. Get in touch today to discuss why your support matters, and everything we are doing to reach those who need us the most. Donate Alternatively, you can pledge your support for vulnerable people right now by making a donation. Donate now £5 funds one person to take part in activities for two weeks which will prevent them feeling isolated. Even a few hours of taking part can significantly improve people’s health and wellbeing. £10 funds one person to take part in community activities for a month building their social connections and preventing isolation. Social isolation has been shown to have the same health risk as smoking 15 cigarettes a day, so connecting with our communities has a huge positive impact on health and wellbeing. £120 will fund two people to build their influence over their neighbourhood services and build community power. People without any real social connections have a 1.5 times higher likelihood of dying younger than people with them. Regular involvement in a group activity and the growth of strong social connections are vital for a long and healthy life. Support us Subscribe Join our email newsletter and stay up to date with our latest funding announcements and policy updates. Contact us Support us Jobs What we do Who we are How we get our funding facebook x linked in bluesky 020 4548 0939 enquiries@peopleshealthtrust.org.uk People's Health Trust 19-21 Garden Walk, London, EC2A 3EQ © People's Health Trust 2025. All rights reserved. Registered Company number: 6492606 Registered Charity number England and Wales: 1125537 Scotland: SC039848 Registered address: People’s Health Trust c/o Sayer Vincent, 110 Golden Lane, London, EC1Y 0TG. Cookies Privacy Accessibility Subscribe below to stay up to date with our latest news.