Health inequalities Health inequalities What makes us healthy? What makes us healthy? Social connections Community power Our local environment Local economies Jobs and income Housing Education and skills Food security Digital inclusion Communities of interest Communities of interest LGBT+ communities Women Disabled people Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities Partnerships and Campaigns Partnerships and Campaigns We’re Right Here Campaign The Other Front Line Living Wage Campaign The Community Wealth Fund Alliance Collaboration for Wellbeing and Health Supporting mental health of grassroots VCS workers Community manifesto for health justice campaign Homes for Health - Time for action Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Mental health The national picture The national picture England Scotland Wales Cost of living crisis Health inequalities What makes us healthy? What makes us healthy? Social connections Community power Our local environment Local economies Jobs and income Housing Education and skills Food security Digital inclusion What makes us healthy? Social connections Community power Our local environment Local economies Jobs and income Housing Education and skills Food security Digital inclusion Communities of interest Communities of interest LGBT+ communities Women Disabled people Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities Communities of interest LGBT+ communities Women Disabled people Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities Partnerships and Campaigns Partnerships and Campaigns We’re Right Here Campaign The Other Front Line Living Wage Campaign The Community Wealth Fund Alliance Collaboration for Wellbeing and Health Supporting mental health of grassroots VCS workers Community manifesto for health justice campaign Homes for Health - Time for action Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Partnerships and Campaigns We’re Right Here Campaign The Other Front Line Living Wage Campaign The Community Wealth Fund Alliance Collaboration for Wellbeing and Health Supporting mental health of grassroots VCS workers Community manifesto for health justice campaign Homes for Health - Time for action Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Mental health The national picture The national picture England Scotland Wales The national picture England Scotland Wales Cost of living crisis Partner with us Partner with us Current Projects Project stories Running a project Running a project Resources for projects Training and network events 360 Giving Our networks Apply for funding Partner with us Current Projects Project stories Running a project Running a project Resources for projects Training and network events Running a project Resources for projects Training and network events 360 Giving Our networks Apply for funding Publications Publications Programme evaluations Case studies Reports Consultations Publications Programme evaluations Case studies Reports Consultations Programmes Programmes Health Justice Fund Health Justice Fund Homes for Health Nature for Health Nature for Health Application guidance What we don't fund Advice for Health Good Work for Young People's Mental Health Active Communities Local Conversations Our funding partnership Programmes Health Justice Fund Health Justice Fund Homes for Health Nature for Health Nature for Health Application guidance What we don't fund Advice for Health Good Work for Young People's Mental Health Health Justice Fund Homes for Health Nature for Health Nature for Health Application guidance Nature for Health Application guidance What we don't fund Advice for Health Good Work for Young People's Mental Health Active Communities Local Conversations Our funding partnership News News Blogs Press releases Podcasts News stories News Blogs Press releases Podcasts News stories Who we are Who we are Our team Trustees Values Equity, diversity and inclusion Safeguarding Safeguarding Our approach to safeguarding Climate Action statement Who we are Our team Trustees Values Equity, diversity and inclusion Safeguarding Safeguarding Our approach to safeguarding Safeguarding Our approach to safeguarding Climate Action statement What we do What we do Strategic priorities Annual Review and Accounts What we do Strategic priorities Annual Review and Accounts How we get our funding Support us Support us Corporate partnerships Winter appeal Support us Corporate partnerships Winter appeal Jobs Jobs What we offer Job vacancies Jobs What we offer Job vacancies Contact us Contact us Feedback and complaints Feedback and complaints Complaints about funded organisations Service related complaints Contact us Feedback and complaints Feedback and complaints Complaints about funded organisations Service related complaints Feedback and complaints Complaints about funded organisations Service related complaints Aims and changes we want to see The overarching aim of Nature for Health is to improve mental health and provide greater access to natural spaces and nature-based activities for people experiencing mental health problems, socio-economic disadvantage, marginalisation and discrimination. The changes we want to see can include: - Support for adults and young people (aged 11-18) who are experiencing mental health problems, socio-economic disadvantage, discrimination and marginalisation: to have greater access to natural spaces and nature-based activities; to be involved in the development and running of nature-based activities in their local area; to experience measurable positive changes to their mental health. - Additional support for those who need it accessing other services, for example, advice or specialist mental health services. - The learning gained through the delivery of funded activity is used to work with decision-makers locally to make changes that benefit local people’s access to nature. Natural spaces can be in towns and cities, the countryside, or the coast, such as parks, community gardens, woodland, canals, lakes, rivers, beaches, and greened/reclaimed urban spaces. Nature-based activities can include creating, maintaining, accessing and using natural spaces. What we expect funded partners to do through Nature for Health Activity funded through Nature for Health must include all these key elements: Involve local people in the development and running of nature-based activities in their local area, which improves social connections. Use learning gained through the delivery of funded activity to work with decision-makers locally to make changes that benefit local people’s access to nature. Funded activity should focus on working with people who are experiencing mental health problems (for example anxiety, panic attacks, depression, loneliness) and: Are experiencing socio-economic disadvantage; Are experiencing marginalisation and discrimination (for example, people from racialised communities, LGBTQ+ people, disabled people, excluded young people and those struggling to attend school (aged 11-18) Or are otherwise less likely to access support (for example, men of all ages). Funded work should involve the development and facilitation of activities in nature and natural spaces, which can include creating, maintaining, accessing and/or using natural spaces. The focus must be on an area that people would consider to be local. Funded activity must be based in one of the following six regions of England or in Scotland East Midlands - Derbyshire, Leicestershire, Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire, Northamptonshire West Midlands - Birmingham, Black Country, Herefordshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Warwickshire, Worcestershire East - Cambridgeshire, Essex, Norfolk, Suffolk South West - Bristol, Cornwall, Devon, Dorset, Gloucestershire, Somerset, Wiltshire South East - Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Hampshire (including the Isle of Wight), Hertfordshire, Oxfordshire, Surrey, Sussex North West - Cheshire, Lancashire, Liverpool and the Wirral and Greater Manchester Scotland – all areas. You must show clear evidence of need in this place by demonstrating how the people you plan to work with are experiencing mental health problems, marginalisation and discrimination. In addition, you will need to describe how the people you plan to work with meet the Trust’s primary focus, which is on people facing socio-economic disadvantage. One way you could do this is by telling us where the place you plan to work is ranked according to the Indices of Multiple Deprivation. Our map , which shows places in the most disadvantaged 30% of neighbourhoods, may help you with this but you should feel able to use any evidence that demonstrates socio-economic disadvantage. Key criteria Size - An annual income up to £1 million in the most recent annual accounts, or on average over the last three years, based on published accounts (not current year management accounts). Organisations with annual incomes higher than £1 million are unlikely to be funded, but may be considered in exceptional circumstances, for example where the most recent year’s income was higher than usual due to a one-off event, such as a capital project. If this is the case, you must speak to us before applying. Type - Voluntary sector (non-profit) organisations that are constituted or registered in Great Britain. This list shows the types of organisations that can apply. Leadership - Organisations that can demonstrate they are led by and for the communities they intend to work with will be given priority. For example, the majority of its board, committee and staff are representative of these communities. Location - Based in Scotland or in one of the following six regions of England: East Midlands, West Midlands, East, South West, South East, North West. See places section above for details. Track record - A clear track record and evidence of supporting access to natural spaces and/or providing mental health support, particularly for communities experiencing marginalisation and discrimination. Equity, diversity and inclusion - Can describe their approach to equity, diversity and inclusion clearly and have a strong track record on this. This should go beyond inclusive practice, to consider how the funded activity will achieve equitable outcomes for all. E vidence of need - Evidence that the people that the funded activity is for are experiencing mental health problems, socio-economic disadvantage, marginalisation and discrimination. Measuring outcomes - Can measure whether the activity results in changes we want to see: Support for adults and young people (aged 11-18) who are experiencing mental health problems, socio-economic disadvantage, discrimination and marginalisation: - to have greater access to natural spaces and nature-based activities - to be involved in the development and running of nature-based activities in their local area - to experience measurable positive changes to their mental health. Additional support for those who need it accessing other services, for example, advice or specialist mental health services. The learning gained through the delivery of funded activity is used to work with decision-makers locally to make changes that benefit local people’s access to nature. Partnerships - Partnerships can be proposed where this brings together organisations to ensure expertise on both mental health and access to natural spaces. The applicant organisation must be the lead partner and must not be outsourcing the whole delivery to the partner organisation. A partnership agreement must be in place. Grant amounts, match funding, length, and use Grant value - Grants will be £20,000 to £40,000. Match funding - Applicants are asked to secure match funding of at least 25% of the grant value. Match funding can be with funding that is already secured or can be included in your budget for year two to allow time to fundraise. The second year of the Trust’s grant will be dependent on securing this match. Length - The funded activity should last two years. Funding use - Funding is for running costs for the activities, for example staff salaries, events, venue hire, small capital items, and can include a small contribution to organisational overheads. We are a Living Wage funder, and we encourage pensions and cost of living increases to be included in the budget. Networks and capacity building - The Trust supports its funded partners with capacity building and involvement in our networks. Nature for Health partners will be expected to participate in a bespoke network for this fund, which will meet around three times per year, usually online. There may also be targeted capacity building training as a term of grant, as well as access to the our funding partnership offer to all funded partners. Please see full list of exclusions to our funding here. Subscribe Join our email newsletter and stay up to date with our latest funding announcements and policy updates. Contact us Support us Jobs What we do Who we are How we get our funding facebook x linked in bluesky 020 4548 0939 enquiries@peopleshealthtrust.org.uk People's Health Trust 19-21 Garden Walk, London, EC2A 3EQ © People's Health Trust 2025. All rights reserved. Registered Company number: 6492606 Registered Charity number England and Wales: 1125537 Scotland: SC039848 Registered address: People’s Health Trust c/o Sayer Vincent, 110 Golden Lane, London, EC1Y 0TG. Cookies Privacy Accessibility Subscribe below to stay up to date with our latest news.