Health inequalities Health inequalities What makes us healthy? What makes us healthy? Social connections Community power Our local environment Local economies Jobs and income Housing Education and skills Food security Digital inclusion Communities of interest Communities of interest LGBT+ communities Women Disabled people Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities Partnerships and Campaigns Partnerships and Campaigns We’re Right Here Campaign The Other Front Line Living Wage Campaign The Community Wealth Fund Alliance Collaboration for Wellbeing and Health Supporting mental health of grassroots VCS workers Community manifesto for health justice campaign Homes for Health - Time for action Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Mental health The national picture The national picture England Scotland Wales Cost of living crisis Health inequalities What makes us healthy? What makes us healthy? Social connections Community power Our local environment Local economies Jobs and income Housing Education and skills Food security Digital inclusion What makes us healthy? Social connections Community power Our local environment Local economies Jobs and income Housing Education and skills Food security Digital inclusion Communities of interest Communities of interest LGBT+ communities Women Disabled people Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities Communities of interest LGBT+ communities Women Disabled people Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities Partnerships and Campaigns Partnerships and Campaigns We’re Right Here Campaign The Other Front Line Living Wage Campaign The Community Wealth Fund Alliance Collaboration for Wellbeing and Health Supporting mental health of grassroots VCS workers Community manifesto for health justice campaign Homes for Health - Time for action Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Partnerships and Campaigns We’re Right Here Campaign The Other Front Line Living Wage Campaign The Community Wealth Fund Alliance Collaboration for Wellbeing and Health Supporting mental health of grassroots VCS workers Community manifesto for health justice campaign Homes for Health - Time for action Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Homes for Health - Time for action MP template letter Mental health The national picture The national picture England Scotland Wales The national picture England Scotland Wales Cost of living crisis Partner with us Partner with us Current Projects Project stories Running a project Running a project Resources for projects Training and network events 360 Giving Our networks Apply for funding Partner with us Current Projects Project stories Running a project Running a project Resources for projects Training and network events Running a project Resources for projects Training and network events 360 Giving Our networks Apply for funding Publications Publications Programme evaluations Case studies Reports Consultations Publications Programme evaluations Case studies Reports Consultations Programmes Programmes Health Justice Fund Health Justice Fund Homes for Health Nature for Health Nature for Health Application guidance What we don't fund Advice for Health Good Work for Young People's Mental Health Active Communities Local Conversations Our funding partnership Programmes Health Justice Fund Health Justice Fund Homes for Health Nature for Health Nature for Health Application guidance What we don't fund Advice for Health Good Work for Young People's Mental Health Health Justice Fund Homes for Health Nature for Health Nature for Health Application guidance Nature for Health Application guidance What we don't fund Advice for Health Good Work for Young People's Mental Health Active Communities Local Conversations Our funding partnership News News Blogs Press releases Podcasts News stories News Blogs Press releases Podcasts News stories Who we are Who we are Our team Trustees Values Equity, diversity and inclusion Safeguarding Safeguarding Our approach to safeguarding Climate Action statement Who we are Our team Trustees Values Equity, diversity and inclusion Safeguarding Safeguarding Our approach to safeguarding Safeguarding Our approach to safeguarding Climate Action statement What we do What we do Strategic priorities Annual Review and Accounts What we do Strategic priorities Annual Review and Accounts How we get our funding Support us Support us Corporate partnerships Winter appeal Support us Corporate partnerships Winter appeal Jobs Jobs What we offer Job vacancies Jobs What we offer Job vacancies Contact us Contact us Feedback and complaints Feedback and complaints Complaints about funded organisations Service related complaints Contact us Feedback and complaints Feedback and complaints Complaints about funded organisations Service related complaints Feedback and complaints Complaints about funded organisations Service related complaints Good Work for Young People’s Mental Health works with young people experiencing mental health problems to remove some of the barriers they face and support them to secure meaningful employment opportunities. Young people who are not in education, employment or training are more likely to experience worse mental health than those who are. This puts them at risk of living in poor health over the course of their lifetimes and of living in long-term in poverty. Mental health problems amongst young people are at record levels, and there are estimated to be one million young people not in education, employment or training. Disproportionately, these young people live in the country’s most disadvantaged places. Our analysis of data published by the government in March 2025 shows that young people aged 16-34 with mental health conditions are almost five times more likely to be economically inactive than young people without. Nearly one in four people out of work due to ill health are under 35. About Good Work for Young People’s Mental Health Every young person deserves a good start in life, no matter who they are or where they are from. We have launched a pioneering approach aiming to break the cycle of poor mental health and unemployment for young people. Three trusted, expert mental health charities will work to remove barriers young people face and support them to secure meaningful employment opportunities. Specialist employment support (known as Individual Placement and Support) has proven to be effective in supporting people with severe mental health difficulties into employment. People’s Health Trust will work with the local mental health charities to determine whether it is also an effective approach for young people aged 16 – 24 with acute, mild to moderate mental health problems – making this a ground-breaking approach. We have secured support for a major evaluation of this intervention from the world-leading National Institute for Health and Care Research School for Public Health Research (NIHR SPHR) , the world-leading research school building the evidence base for equitable, inclusive and cost-effective public health practice. Evidence gathered through this programme and evaluation will be shared with policy makers at a local and national level, for whom there is huge interest in solutions to breaking the cycle of mental health problems and unemployment among young people. We have been hearing for many years from young people seeking support for their mental health, that they really want to find good places to work where they can build their skills and a secure future, so we are delighted that the model will allow young adults to have a voice and shape what will work the best for them and for employers.” Chief Executive, 42nd Street Funding through Good Work for Young People’s Mental Health We are funding three projects in Norwich, Greater Manchester and Southampton, working with young people aged 16-24 experiencing mild to moderate mental health problems and barriers to employment: 42nd Street - Supports young people aged 16-24 in Greater Manchester (mainly from Manchester, Salford and Tameside). Mancroft Advice Project (MAP) - Supports young people aged 16-24 in Norwich. No Limits - Supports young people aged 16 -24 years in Southampton. A shortlist of organisations with a previous track record in supporting young people’s mental health providing were invited to apply for the fund. A panel of Trust staff informed the final selection of funded projects. Media Coverage The following outlets have covered Good Work for Young People's Mental Health and our funded partners. Daily Express - with testimony provided by our funded partner 42nd street Manchester Evening News - covering the launch of the programme including testimony from 42nd Street and People's Health Trust analysis Partner with us We are actively seeking partnership with others to boost the number of young people who can benefit from this innovative approach. Get in touch today to discuss how you can work with us to expand this programme. The NIHR School for Public Health Research (SPHR) and People’s Health Trust are collaborating together on a new pilot scheme that aims to evaluate voluntary sector initiatives which are developed and delivered by communities. In this section Homes for Health Nature for Health What we don't fund Advice for Health Funding Subscribe Join our email newsletter and stay up to date with our latest funding announcements and policy updates. Contact us Support us Jobs What we do Who we are How we get our funding facebook x linked in bluesky 020 4548 0939 enquiries@peopleshealthtrust.org.uk People's Health Trust 19-21 Garden Walk, London, EC2A 3EQ © People's Health Trust 2025. All rights reserved. Registered Company number: 6492606 Registered Charity number England and Wales: 1125537 Scotland: SC039848 Registered address: People’s Health Trust c/o Sayer Vincent, 110 Golden Lane, London, EC1Y 0TG. Cookies Privacy Accessibility Subscribe below to stay up to date with our latest news.