Welcome to the webpage of the Liz & Terry Bramall Foundation. AIMS AND ACTIVITIES The Liz and Terry Bramall Foundation has the following charitable objects:- The advancement of the Christian faith for the benefit of the public in accordance with the statements of belief of the Church of England; The promotion for the benefit of the public of urban or rural regeneration in areas of social and economic deprivation by all or any of the following means: The relief of financial hardship; The relief of unemployment; The advancement of education, training or retraining, particularly among unemployed people and providing unemployed people with work experience; The provision of financial assistance, technical assistance or business advice or consultancy in order to provide training and employment opportunities for unemployed people in cases of financial or other charitable need through help: in setting up their own business; or to existing businesses. The creation of training and employment opportunities by the provision of workspace, buildings and/or land for use on favourable terms; The provision of housing for those in conditions of need and the improvement of housing in the public sector or in charitable ownership provided that such power shall not extend to relieving any local authorities or other bodies of a statutory duty to provide or improve housing; The maintenance, improvement or provision of public amenities; The preservation of buildings or sites of historic or architectural importance; The provision of recreational facilities for the public at large or those who by reason of their youth, age, infirmity or disablement, financial hardship or social and economic circumstances, have need of such facilities; The protection or conservation of the environment; The provision of public health facilities and childcare; The promotion of public safety and prevention of crime; and Such other means as may from time to time be determined subject to the prior written consent of the Charity Commissioners for England and Wales. The relief of financial hardship; The relief of unemployment; The advancement of education, training or retraining, particularly among unemployed people and providing unemployed people with work experience; The provision of financial assistance, technical assistance or business advice or consultancy in order to provide training and employment opportunities for unemployed people in cases of financial or other charitable need through help: in setting up their own business; or to existing businesses. in setting up their own business; or to existing businesses. The creation of training and employment opportunities by the provision of workspace, buildings and/or land for use on favourable terms; The provision of housing for those in conditions of need and the improvement of housing in the public sector or in charitable ownership provided that such power shall not extend to relieving any local authorities or other bodies of a statutory duty to provide or improve housing; The maintenance, improvement or provision of public amenities; The preservation of buildings or sites of historic or architectural importance; The provision of recreational facilities for the public at large or those who by reason of their youth, age, infirmity or disablement, financial hardship or social and economic circumstances, have need of such facilities; The protection or conservation of the environment; The provision of public health facilities and childcare; The promotion of public safety and prevention of crime; and Such other means as may from time to time be determined subject to the prior written consent of the Charity Commissioners for England and Wales. The relief of sickness and the advancement of health; The promotion of the arts for the benefit of the public by the establishment and maintenance of museums, art galleries, art galleries and theatres; The advancement of education for the public benefit particularly, but not exclusively: The advancement of the education of the pupils at schools or higher places of education by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities for education (including physical education) at those places of learning;. and The study of music and other arts. The advancement of the education of the pupils at schools or higher places of education by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities for education (including physical education) at those places of learning;. and The study of music and other arts. Grant support is given to projects furthering these aims, with an emphasis on the Yorkshire region. More detail may be found on the Charity Commission website: http://beta.charitycommission.gov.uk HOW TO APPLY All applications must include a paragraph of no more than 120 words summarising your application. Applications can be made by letter sent to the registered office which is Eton House, 89 Station Parade, Harrogate HG1 1HF or by e-mail to bramallfoundation@raworths.co.uk . Your application should contain: A short synopsis of the aims and activities of you/your charity/organisation; Details of the project/projects for which you are seeking funding; and The level of funding you are seeking; and An indication of other sources of funds which will make your project sustainable. A short synopsis of the aims and activities of you/your charity/organisation; Details of the project/projects for which you are seeking funding; and The level of funding you are seeking; and An indication of other sources of funds which will make your project sustainable. There is no need to provide accounts You should expect to receive an acknowledgement of your application within 10 working days. Trustees’ meetings are held quarterly in January, April, August and November, but can be subject to change. Your acknowledgement letter will inform you of the date on which your application will be considered. You should expect to receive a response to your application within 6 weeks of a Trustees’ meeting. Due to the large number of applications received and considered, we are unable to provide individual feedback. For full details of how we use your data, please see our privacy policy here .