Funding We partner with small and local charities and communities working with people facing complex issues and barriers. Through unrestricted funding and support to develop, we work alongside those who understand the complexity of the issues people face or the barriers they experience and are best placed to make a genuine difference to people’s lives. We work in partnership with charities and communities that understand the needs and aspirations of people and can make a lasting difference to their lives. We provide flexible, unrestricted funding and additional support to develop to help charities grow stronger and thrive beyond the lifetime of their grant. Our focus is where our combination of funding and additional support can make the greatest impact on those we partner with. Our programmes aim to give charities the stability and freedom to use the funding as they best see fit. Sign up for new funding programme email Closed Programmes Closed Local collaborations This programme is for collaborations led by small charities seeking to influence change at a local level around three issues within accommodation, social security and refugees and asylum seeker support. Funding amount £100,000 Length of grant Two years Organisations Local collaborations Closed Racial equity Small local charities and community interest companies (CICs) working with people experiencing inequity because of their race or ethnicity can apply for a three year unrestricted grant of £75,000. Funding amount £75,000 Length of grant Three years Organsations Small charities and CICs Closed Deaf and Disabled people's organisations Small local charities and community interest companies (CICs) led by and working with Deaf and Disabled people experiencing poverty can apply for a three-year unrestricted grant of £75,000. Funding amount £75,000 Length of grant 3 years Opens in June 2025 Closed Specialist programme This programme is designed to support small specialist charities, with an annual income between £25,000 to £500,000, that work with people to help them overcome complex issues. Organisations Charities and CIOs Location England and Wales Funding amount £75,000 Closed Organisational Development Support programme This programme we will help charities to identify and prioritise their development goals, building on what they are already great at and how to respond to and overcome challenges. Length of support 2 years Location England and Wales Organisations Small charities Closed National influencing programme This programme is for charities and CICs seeking to influence and achieve change in national policy and practice for people facing complex issues around specific issues within the accommodation, social security, and refugees and asylum seeker support. Funding amount £30,000 - £150,000 Length of grant Up to three years Location England and Wales Talking about your grant If you're already funded by us, take a look at our guidance for how you can talk about your partnership with us externally, as well as our brand guidelines. Our impact in 2024 662 small charities supported through our grants programmes £20.3m awarded in funding in total 297,000 people supported by our charity partners Learn more about our impact in 2024 Learn about charities we partner with CARE, Christian Action and Resource Enterprise, is a charity in Grimsby supporting people who are in crisis. Rebuild East Midlands provides long term person-centred support to survivors of modern day slavery and exploitation in Derbyshire. Learn more about some of the charities we've supported Sign up to our newsletter Receive monthly updates on what we’ve been up to, what we have planned, news from the sector and access to free and helpful resources Follow us