Support for charities We want to help charities to grow stronger and more resilient so they can thrive beyond the lifetime of our funding. We’ll do this by building relationships and working alongside charities, sharing our tools and resources, and drawing on our connections with Lloyds Banking Group and other partners. 662 charities supported through grants programmes 361 Lloyds Banking Group colleagues shared their skills and expertise with our charity partners 550 charity staff connected through our events and networks For so many small local charities we partner with, it can be difficult to access good resources that can help to develop the skills, capabilities, confidence of staff, volunteers and trustees so the whole charity can strengthen. Often the cost of hiring good consultants and training can be a huge barrier for small charities, it can also be difficult to know where to start. That’s why we provide a range of capacity building offers for charities we partner with for free. This will be on top of your grant with us or as a standalone offer. Through this support, your charity can build strong foundations so you can become more resilient, helping you beyond the lifetime of our grant. Learn more about what you can expect from this support and the different types of offers we provide. But it’s not just the money Lloyds Bank Foundation provides; it’s the whole package that makes such a difference! And it’s not only the amount and type of support we’ve had, it’s the way it has been offered – from a perspective of understanding our needs as a small charity. This combined support enables us to keep our autonomy and care for everybody – we want to stay true to what our experience and expertise tells us is the right thing to do, rather than be dictated to or told who we can and can’t support. Find out what you can expect when you receive capacity building support from the Foundation. From your first meeting with us, to our ongoing support available to you. Find out more and complete an expression of interest form if you are interested in working with small charities as one of our national development partners. Through our partnership with Lloyds Banking Group we nurture relationships between bank staff and small charities. In the face of significant sector-wide challenges, we know that these relationships can make a genuine difference to charities and Bank colleagues alike. We provide networking opportunities to our partner charities through local peer forums across England and Wales. These forums enable small charity leaders to share learning and knowledge while establishing a support network of individuals facing similar work-based challenges within the charity sector. We've developed a range of toolkits, guides and resources for charities to access at any time and follow along at their own space Success Stories Find out how our Trading and Sustainability programme has helped small charities to successfully develop new and sustainable streams of income. WODIN is run by and for migrant women in Liverpool, supporting women with digital skills training as well as practical and emotional support. Sign up to our newsletter Receive monthly updates on what we’ve been up to, what we have planned, news from the sector and access to free and helpful resources Follow us