Lloyds Banking Group Our strong partnership with Lloyds Banking Group, whose profits fund our work, mean we can build long-term impactful relationships with charities across England and Wales. We share an ambition to help people, communities and Britain prosper and believe that we can achieve greater impact by working closely together. For over forty years, our four independent charitable Foundations and Lloyds Banking Group colleagues have been working together to support the small charities and organisations which help those most in need in our communities. We have contributed £800 million and, in addition, I have been humbled by the enthusiasm and dedication of our people – sharing their skills to help thousands of grass-root organisations maximise their impact and reach. I’m very proud of our commitment to the Foundations and our partnership will continue to be fundamental to our purpose of Helping Britain Prosper, helping us to tackle social disadvantage and build a more inclusive society. Sharing Skills to Support Charities Through our partnership with Lloyds Banking Group, we provide the opportunity for Bank staff to volunteer and share their skills with the charities we fund through mentoring and volunteering. This helps charities to become more effective and at the same time, Lloyds Banking Group staff benefit from stretching their skills in new settings, developing new capabilities, and building stronger ties to the communities where they live and work. Find out more Matched Giving To encourage and reward the charitable fundraising and volunteering activities of staff in Lloyds Banking Group, the Group’s four independent charitable Foundations all run The Matched Giving Scheme is run by the Lloyds Bank Foundations and is open to Lloyds Banking Group staff in the UK or Channel Islands, including Group subsidiaries. Claim up to £1,000 for charities of your choice! Up to £500 is available for fundraising events as well as up to £500 for voluntary time given. Applying - If you are a Lloyds Banking Group colleague who would like to apply to our Matched Giving Scheme, please visit the Interchange. Sign up to our newsletter Receive monthly updates on what we’ve been up to, what we have planned, news from the sector and access to free and helpful resources Follow us