Charity stories Featured Dawn Hodson, Chief Executive of Reducing the Risk, shares how support from the Foundation has enabled them to monetise and franchise their domestic abuse awareness training. WODIN is run by and for migrant women in Liverpool, supporting women with digital skills training as well as practical and emotional support. Charity stories Trading and Sustainability programme: helping small charities to increase their income Find out how our Trading and Sustainability programme has helped small charities to successfully develop new and sustainable streams of income. Youth Shedz: helping young people thrive Youth Shedz provides a safe place for young people who have been in care, or experienced other challenges, to explore who they are, develop relationships with positive role models, learn new skills and contribute to community projects. Hope and Vision: supporting recovery in the community Hope and Vision Communities provides accommodation and ongoing support for people that have completed residential treatment for addiction. Maa Shanti: supporting South Asian women affected by domestic abuse Maa Shanti supports South Asian mothers affected by domestic abuse, including forced marriage, human trafficking and coercive control. We visited to learn more about their vital work. Gingerbread: highlighting the negative impact of Universal Credit sanctions on single parents Alexandra Jones, Policy Manager at Gingerbread, spoke to us about their recent research into the impact of Universal Credit sanctions on single parents. CARE: supporting people with complex needs CARE, Christian Action and Resource Enterprise, is a charity in Grimsby supporting people who are in crisis. Rebuild: empowering people to live free from exploitation Rebuild East Midlands provides long term person-centred support to survivors of modern day slavery and exploitation in Derbyshire. Justlife: Supporting people with lived experience of homelessness to influence national policy Justlife helped set up the an all-party parliamentary group (APPG) with Shared Health, where people with lived experience share their experiences with MPs to get temporary accommodation on the government’s agenda. Voices in Exile: welcoming and supporting refugees and asylum seekers Voices in Exile provides legal and practical support to refugees and asylum seekers. We interviewed Mel Steel, Director, and Alison Kelly, Head of Services, who shared how the Foundation’s funding and development support has helped the charity continue and strengthen their vital services. The Oswin Project: creating second chances Fiona Sample and James Stoddart from The Oswin Project spoke to us about how they are creating second chances for people who have experienced the criminal justice system and how the Foundation's funding and development support has strengthened the charity. 1 2 3 4 ... 4 > >> Learn more about funding under our 2022 - 2026 strategy Through unrestricted funding, support to develop, and influencing policy and practice we help small and local charities thrive, communities grow stronger, and people overcome complex issues and barriers so they can transform their lives. Sign up to our newsletter Receive monthly updates on what we’ve been up to, what we have planned, news from the sector and access to free and helpful resources Follow us