News and blogs Keep up with the latest news affecting small and local charities and views from our expert teams and partners. Filter category All articles Where compassion meets results: charities get top marks from their clients 24 July 2025 Here, Nicole Sykes shares how small charities are making a big difference, and what Lloyds Banking Group’s latest research tells us. Our Chief Executive, Matt Hyde delivers welcoming speech at the Civil Society Covenant 18 July 2025 We sponsored the Civil Society Covenant at the Science Museum, to explore how Government, civil society and the impact economy can achieve more in partnership. Read Matt's opening speech in full. Finding the Good: How commissioning in Wales can work better for everyone 11 July 2025 Our Finding the Good project sparked important cross-sector conversations about how to improve commissioning in Wales so that everyone can get the support that they need, when they need it. The strengths, challenges and intersectionality of by and for organisations 10 June 2025 Key findings from our research into by and for organisations, including their strengths, the barriers and challenges they face in regards to funding, and intersectional power imbalances. Funding challenges for small charities in the criminal justice sector 30 April 2025 Read key findings from research exploring how small charities fare in the criminal justice sector funding landscape and recommendations for how funders can better meet their needs. Lessons from our work in communities: changing the system takes time and getting the balance right 24 April 2025 We reflect on two of the lessons from our work with people and communities: changing the system takes time, and balancing shape, pace, power and certainty. Equipping neurodivergent and disabled people to turn their passions into businesses 21 March 2025 Logan, a young person supported by our charity partner SAMEE, shares how he has been supported to set up his own business and gain more independence. Shaping the Supported Housing Act through lived experience 13 March 2025 Emmaus UK is working with people with lived experience of supported housing to help shape the new Supported Housing Act. Accelerating action for gender equality with our charity partners 11 March 2025 Discover how we and our charity partners have accelerated action for gender equality and are making a difference in the lives of women across England and Wales. Women supporting women 06 March 2025 How women from Lloyds Banking Group are supporting women across the charity sector 1 2 3 4 5 ... 27 ... 27 > >> Sign up to our newsletter Receive monthly updates on what we’ve been up to, what we have planned, news from the sector and access to free and helpful resources Follow us